<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: A Sinister Suggestion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Sinister Suggestion</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>For some moments the men stood, reverent, and bareheaded, looking down at the motionless form. The face was disfigured, the left cheek from the ear to the mouth being cut and bruised, evidently from contact with a boulder. The left arm also was broken, and lay twisted at an unnatural angle with the body.</p>
			<p>At last Austin made a move. Taking out his handkerchief, he stooped and reverently covered the dead face.</p>
			<p>“We must send for the police, I’m afraid.” He spoke in a low tone, and seemed deeply affected. “You go, Innes, will you? Take the large car and run them back to the bridge. You had better bring <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames too, I suppose, and a stretcher. Also send this wire to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove. We’ll wait here till you come.”</p>
			<p>He scribbled a telegram on a leaf of his pocket book:</p>
			<blockquote class="telegram" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>“To <span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Cosgrove Ponson</span>, 174B Knightsbridge, London.⁠—Terrible accident. My father drowned in river. Tell my mother at Lancaster Gate, then come.⁠—<span epub:type="z3998:sender">Austin</span>.”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Cosgrove Ponson was the only son of Sir William’s younger brother, and was consequently cousin to Austin and Enid. These three with Lady Ponson were now the only living members of the family. Cosgrove was a man of about five-and-thirty who had inherited some money from his father, and lived the careless life of a man about town. Though he had never got on well with Austin, he had been a favourite of Sir William’s, and had spent a good deal of time, on and off, at Luce Manor.</p>
			<p>When the valet had gone Austin sat down on a rock and, leaning his head in his hands, seemed to give himself up to profound meditation. The others, uncertain what to do, withdrew to a short distance, not liking either to intrude, or, after what Austin had said, to leave altogether. So they waited until after about an hour Innes reappeared, and with him <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames, a sergeant of police, and two constables carrying a stretcher.</p>
			<p>“Innes has told us, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson. A truly terrible affair!” said the doctor, with real sympathy in his voice. He shook hands with Austin, while the sergeant saluted respectfully.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid, doctor, you can do nothing. He was dead when we found him.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, I imagined so from what your man said.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames knelt down and lifted the handkerchief from the battered features. “Yes, you are right. He has been dead for some hours.” He replaced the handkerchief, and rose to his feet. “I suppose, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson, you will have him taken to Luce Manor? There is no reason why that should not be done at once.”</p>
			<p>“I was only waiting for the stretcher.”</p>
			<p>The doctor nodded and took charge.</p>
			<p>“Your stretcher, sergeant,” he said.</p>
			<p>The remains were lifted on, and slowly the melancholy little procession started. Before they left, the sergeant asked who had made the tragic discovery, and was shown exactly where the body had been found. One constable was left with instructions to see that no one touched the boat, and the sergeant and the other policeman walked with the party, taking their turns in carrying the sad burden. After Austin had instructed the butler to hurry on and prepare for them at the house, no one spoke.</p>
			<p>When the body had been laid on the bed in Sir William’s room, and the little excitement caused by the arrival had subsided, the sergeant approached Austin Ponson.</p>
			<p>“Beg pardon, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson,” he said. “I’m very sorry, but I’ll have to make a report about this, and I’m bound to ask a few questions. I hope, sir, you won’t mind?”</p>
			<p>“Of course not, sergeant. I understand you must do your duty.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, sir. May I ask then if you can explain how this accident occurred?”</p>
			<p>“No more than you can, sergeant. I only know that Innes, Sir William’s valet, came to my house when I was dressing this morning, to know if Sir William was with me. He said he had gone out after dinner last night without leaving any message, and they didn’t know where he was. I came back with Innes, and they had just then learnt that the boat was missing. We thought perhaps my father had rowed across the river to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham, and I sent round to inquire, but when we learnt he hadn’t been there we began to fear the worst. We therefore went down the river to see if we could find anything.”</p>
			<p>“And when, sir, did you see him last?”</p>
			<p>“On <time datetime="1920-07-04">Sunday</time> evening⁠—three days ago. I dined here, and left about <time datetime="1920-07-04T22:00">ten</time> or later.”</p>
			<p>“And was he in his usual health and spirits then?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I noticed nothing out of the common.”</p>
			<p>“And he said nothing then, or indeed at any time, that would explain the matter?”</p>
			<p>“Not a thing. He seemed perfectly normal in every way.”</p>
			<p>“Very strange affair, sir, where he could have been going to. Was he skilful with a boat?”</p>
			<p>“No, I should say not. He could row a little, but not well. He did not specially care for it. I rarely knew him to go out for pleasure.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, sir. With your permission I will see now what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parkes and the other men can tell me.”</p>
			<p>He heard the butler’s story, then Innes’s and lastly Smith’s. He was a young and intelligent officer, and was anxious to send in a complete explanation of the tragedy in his report, but he was almost equally desirous not to inconvenience or offend Austin Ponson, whom he supposed would succeed Sir William and become a magistrate and a leading man in the district. Though he had admired Sir William and was genuinely shocked and sorry about the accident, yet he was human, and he could not but recognise the affair gave him a chance of coming under the special notice of his superiors.</p>
			<p>Up to a certain point he was clear in his own mind what had occurred. Sir William had left his house sometime between <time datetime="1920-07-07T20:45">8:45</time> and <time datetime="1920-07-07T23:30">11:30</time> the previous evening, and had gone down to the boathouse with his key, entered, opened the water gate and taken out the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Alice</i>. In the darkness, and probably underestimating the amount of fresh in the river, he had allowed himself to be carried into the narrow channel. Once there he had practically no chance. The place was notoriously dangerous.</p>
			<p>So much was plain enough, but the sergeant was bothered by the question, what had Sir William gone out for? No one had as yet thrown any light on this.</p>
			<p>Calling <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames, who, not having had any breakfast, was just finishing a somewhat substantial snack in the dining-room, the sergeant explained that he wished to go through Sir William’s pockets, if the doctor would come and assist him. They accordingly made their way upstairs and began their search.</p>
			<p>The pockets contained just those articles which a man in Sir William’s position would naturally be expected to carry, with one exception. Besides the bunch of keys, handkerchief, watch, cigar-case, money and suchlike, there was a very singular object⁠—nothing more nor less than a small-sized six-chambered Colt’s revolver, unloaded. There were no shells, either full or empty, and the barrel was clean, showing it had not been fired.</p>
			<p>“By Jove! Sergeant,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames exclaimed in a low tone. “That’s surprising.”</p>
			<p>“Surprising, sir? I should just think so! You never know, sir, about <em>anybody</em>. Sir William was the last man, I should have said, to go about armed.”</p>
			<p>“But he wasn’t armed, sergeant,” rejoined the doctor. “A man with a revolver is not armed unless he has something to fire out of it. That’s no more an arm than any other bit of old iron.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant hesitated.</p>
			<p>“That’s so, sir, in a way, of course. Still⁠—you can hardly think of anyone carrying an empty revolver. I expect he must have had the habit of carrying shells, but by some oversight forgot them yesterday.”</p>
			<p>“Possibly. There doesn’t seem to be much else of interest anyway.”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, that’s a fact.” The sergeant, having emptied all the pockets, began laboriously to make a list of the articles he had found. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames had taken up a small diary or engagement book, and was rather aimlessly turning over the sodden leaves. Suddenly he gave an exclamation.</p>
			<p>“Look here, sergeant,” he whispered. “Here’s what you have been wanting.”</p>
			<p>There was a division in the book for each day of the year, with notes of engagements or other matters in most. At the bottom of the space for the previous day⁠—the portion which would probably refer to the evening⁠—was written the words: “Graham, <time datetime="21:00">9:00 <abbr class="eoc">p.m.</abbr></time>”</p>
			<p>“There it is,” went on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames. “That’s where he was going last night. He evidently intended to consult <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham privately. As it was too far to walk round by the road, and he didn’t want to get a car out, he thought he would take a shortcut by rowing across the river.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant made a gesture of satisfaction.</p>
			<p>“You have it, sir. That’s just what he’s done. I don’t mind saying that was bothering me badly. But now, thanks to you, sir, the whole thing is cleared up. I’ll go over to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham’s directly, and see if I can’t learn something about it from him.”</p>
			<p>“I have an operation in an hour and I must go back to Halford, but I’ll come out again in the afternoon, and have another look at the body. If you call in with me tonight I’ll let you have the certificate.”</p>
			<p>“There’ll have to be an inquest, of course, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. It should be arranged for <time datetime="1920-07-09">tomorrow</time>.”</p>
			<p>“It’ll be for the coroner to fix the time, but I would suggest <time datetime="1920-07-09T11:00">eleven</time> or <time datetime="1920-07-09T12:00">twelve</time>. I’ll call round tonight anyway sir, and let you know.”</p>
			<p>Taking Smith, the gardener-boatman, and the constable who had helped to carry the body, the sergeant returned to the site of the accident. The river was falling rapidly, and with some trouble the four men succeeded in getting the damaged boat ashore. Smith identified it immediately as the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Alice</i>. A careful search in the neighbourhood brought to light the rudder and bottom boards⁠—each split and torn from the rocks. But there was no sign of the oars or rowlocks.</p>
			<p>It was useless, the sergeant thought, to look for the rowlocks. They would be at the bottom of the river. But the oars should be recoverable. Sending the two men downstream to search for them, he himself took the Argyle, which Austin had left for the convenience of the police, and drove to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham’s. That gentleman had not heard the news and was profoundly shocked, but when the sergeant went on to ask his question, he denied emphatically that there had been any appointment for the previous evening. Sir William, he stated, was a personal and valued friend, and they had often visited at each other’s houses, but he had never met the deceased in a professional capacity. He believed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames was Sir William’s medical adviser.</p>
			<p>“But, of course,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham concluded, “it is quite possible he may have wished to consult privately. He knows I am usually to be found in my study about <time datetime="21:00">nine</time>, and he may have intended to walk up unobserved by the path through the shrubbery, come to the study direct, and enter by the French window.”</p>
			<p>“Very likely, sir,” returned the sergeant, as he thanked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham and took his leave.</p>
			<p>His next visit was to the coroner, who also was much shocked at the news. After some discussion the inquest was arranged for <time datetime="1920-07-09T12:00">twelve o’clock the following morning</time>, provided this would suit the chief constable of the district, who might wish to be present.</p>
			<p>“It will be a purely formal business, I suppose, sergeant?” the coroner observed as the other rose to take his leave. “There are no doubtful or suspicious circumstances?”</p>
			<p>“None, sir. The affair is as clear as day. But, sir, I have been thinking the question may arise as to whether boating should not be prohibited altogether on that stretch of the river.”</p>
			<p>“Possibly it should, but I think we may leave that to the jury.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant saluted and withdrew. Again taking the car, he reached the police station as the clocks were striking <time datetime="1920-07-08T14:30">half-past two</time>. Going to the telephone, he rang up the chief constable⁠—to whom he had telephoned immediately on hearing of the accident⁠—and reported what he had learnt. The official replied that he would be over in time for the inquest.</p>
			<p>An hour later the two constables who had been sent to search the lower reaches of the river arrived at the police station. They had found the missing oars, and had taken them to Luce Manor, where they had been identified by Smith, the boatman. They had, it appeared, gone ashore close beside each other nearly a mile below the falls, and two points about the affair had interested the men. First, the oars had been washed up on the left bank, while the other things had been deposited on the right, and second, while all the latter were torn and damaged by the rocks, neither oar was injured or even marked.</p>
			<p>“What do you make of that, Cowan?” the sergeant asked when these facts had been put before him.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ll tell you what the boatman says, and it seems right enough. You know that there road bridge above the falls? There’s two arches in it. Well, Smith says he’ll lay ten bob the boat went through one arch and the oars the other. That would look right enough to me too, because the right side is more shallow and more rocky than the other, and more likely for to break anything up. The left side is the main channel, as you might say, and the oars might get down it without damage. At least, that’s what Smith says, and it looks like enough to me too.”</p>
			<p>“H’m,” the sergeant mused, “seems reasonable.” The sergeant knew more about sea currents than river. He had been brought up on the coast, and he had learnt that tidal currents having the same set will deposit objects at or about the same place. It seemed to him likely that a similar rule would apply to rivers. The body, boat, rudder, and bottom boards had all gone ashore at one place. The oars also were found not far apart, but they were a long way from the other things. What more likely than the boatman’s suggestion that the two lots of objects had become sufficiently divided in the upper reach to pass through different arches of the bridge? This would separate them completely enough to account for the positions in which they were found. Yes, it certainly seemed reasonable.</p>
			<p>And then another idea struck him, and he slapped his thigh.</p>
			<p>“By Jehosaphat, Cowan!” he cried, “that’s just what’s happened, and it explains the only thing we didn’t know about the whole affair. Those oars went through the other arch right enough. And why? Why, because Sir William had lost them coming down the river. That’s why he was lost himself. I’ll lay you anything those oars got overboard, and he couldn’t find them in the dark.”</p>
			<p>To the sergeant, who was not without imagination, there came the dim vision of an old, grey-haired man, adrift, alone and at night, in a light skiff on the swirling flood⁠—borne silently and resistlessly onward, while he struggled desperately in the shrouding darkness to recover the oars which had slipped from his grasp, and which were floating somewhere close by. He could almost see the man’s frantic, unavailing efforts to reach the bank, almost hear his despairing cries rising above the rush of the waters and the roar of the fall, as more and more swiftly he was swept on to his doom. Almost he could visualise the tossing, spinning boat disappear under the bridge, emerge, hang poised as if breathless for the fraction of a second above the fall, then with an unhurried, remorseless swoop, plunge into the boiling cauldron below.⁠ ⁠… A horrible fantasy truly, but to the sergeant it seemed a picture of the actual happening.</p>
			<p>But why, he wondered, had both the oars taken the other arch? It would have been easier to explain the loss of one. With an unskilful boatman such a thing not unfrequently occurred. But to lose both involved some special cause. Possibly, he thought, Sir William had had some sudden start, had moved sharply, almost capsizing the boat, and in making an involuntary effort to right it had let go with both hands.</p>
			<p>He was still puzzling over the problem when a note was handed him which, when he had read it, banished the matter of the oars from his mind, and turned his thoughts into a fresh direction. It ran:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Luce Manor, <time datetime="1920-07-08">Thursday</time>.⁠—Please come out here at once. An unfortunate development has arisen.⁠—<span epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Walter Ames</span>.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Without loss of time the sergeant took his bicycle and rode out the two miles to Luce Manor. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames was waiting impatiently, and drew the officer aside.</p>
			<p>“Look here, sergeant,” he said. “I’m not very happy about this business. I want a postmortem.”</p>
			<p>“A postmortem sir?” the other repeated in astonishment. “Why, sir, is there anything fresh turned up, or what has happened?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing has happened, but”⁠—the doctor hesitated⁠—“the fact is I’m not certain of the cause of death.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant stared.</p>
			<p>“But is there any doubt, sir⁠—you’ll excuse me, I hope⁠—is there any doubt that he was drowned?”</p>
			<p>“That’s just what there is⁠—a doubt and no more. A postmortem will set it at rest.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant hesitated.</p>
			<p>“Of course, sir,” he said slowly, “if you say that it ends the matter. But it’ll be a nasty shock for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Austin, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I can’t help that. See here,” the doctor went on confidentially, “some of the obvious signs of drowning are missing, and he has had a blow on the back of the head that looks as if it might have killed him. I want to make sure which it was.”</p>
			<p>“But might he not have got that blow against a rock, sir?”</p>
			<p>“He might, but I’m not sure. But we’re only wasting time. To put the matter in a nutshell, I won’t give a certificate unless there is a postmortem, and if one is not arranged now, it will be after my evidence at the inquest.”</p>
			<p>“Please don’t think, sir, I was in any way questioning your decision,” the sergeant hastened to reply. “But I think I should first communicate with the chief constable. You see, sir, in the case of so prominent a family⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You do what you think best about that, but if you take my advice you’ll ask the Scotland Yard people to send down one of their doctors to act with me.”</p>
			<p>“Bless me, sir! Is it as serious as that?”</p>
			<p>“Of course it’s serious,” rapped out the doctor. “Sir William may have been drowned, in which case it’s all right; or he may not, in which case it’s all wrong⁠—for somebody.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant’s manner changed.</p>
			<p>“I’ll go immediately, sir, and phone the chief constable, and then, if he approves, Scotland Yard. Where will you be, sir?</p>
			<p>“I have my work to attend to; I’m going home. You’ll find me there any time during the evening. And look here, sergeant. I’d rather you said nothing about this. There may be nothing at all in it.”</p>
			<p>“Trust me, sir,” and with a salute the officer withdrew.</p>
			<p>He rode rapidly back to Halford, and once again calling up the chief constable, repeated what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames had said.</p>
			<p>The two men discussed the matter at some length, and it was at last decided that the chief constable should ring up the Yard and ask the opinion of the Authorities about sending down a doctor. In a short time there was a reply. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Wilgar and Inspector Tanner were motoring down, and would be at Luce Manor about <time datetime="1920-07-08T20:00">eight o’clock</time>. The sergeant went round to tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames, and it was arranged that the latter should meet the London men there. In the meantime the sergeant was to see Austin Ponson, and break the disagreeable news to him.</p>
			<p>This programme was carried out, and shortly after <time datetime="1920-07-08T22:00">ten o’clock</time> five men met at the police station at Halford. There were the medical men, Inspector Tanner, the sergeant, and Chief Constable Soames, who had motored over.</p>
			<p>“Well, gentlemen,” said the latter, when the preliminary greetings were past, “we are met here under unusual and tragic circumstances, which may easily become more serious still.” He turned to the doctors. “You have completed the postmortem, I understand?”</p>
			<p>“We have,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Wilgar.</p>
			<p>“And are you in agreement as to your conclusions?”</p>
			<p>“Completely.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps then you would tell us what they are?”</p>
			<p>Wilgar bowed to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames, and the latter replied:</p>
			<p>“The first moment I glanced at the body the thought occurred to me that it had not exactly the appearance of a drowned man. But at that time I did not seriously doubt that death had so occurred. When, however, I came to make a more careful examination, the uncertainty again arose in my mind. There was none of the discolouration usual in such cases, and the wounds on the side of the face did not look as if they had been inflicted before death. But, as a result of the long continued washing they had had, I could not be certain of this. When in addition I discovered a bruise on the back of the head which might easily have caused death, I felt I would not be justified in giving a certificate without further examination.”</p>
			<p>The chief constable bowed and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Wilgar took up the story.</p>
			<p>“When I saw the corpse I quite agreed with my colleague’s views, and we decided the postmortem must be carried out. As a result of it we find the man was not drowned.”</p>
			<p>His hearers stared at him, but without interrupting.</p>
			<p>“There was no water in the lungs or stomach,” went on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Wilgar. “The wounds on the face occurred after death, and were doubtless caused by the boulders in the river, but the cause of death was undoubtedly the blow on the back of the head to which my colleague has referred.”</p>
			<p>“You amaze me, gentlemen,” the chief constable remarked, and a similar emotion showed on the sergeant’s expressive face. Inspector Tanner, a fair haired, blue eyed, clean-shaven man of about forty, merely looked keenly interested.</p>
			<p>“Do I understand you to say that the late Sir William was killed before falling into the river?” went on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Soames.</p>
			<p>“There is no doubt of it.”</p>
			<p>“That means, I take it, that he was flung out of the boat in such a way that the back of his head struck a rock, killing him before he dropped into the stream?”</p>
			<p>“We do not think so, sir,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Wilgar answered. “In that case he would certainly have swallowed water. Besides, the blow was struck square on with a blunt, smooth-surfaced implement. The skin was not cut as a boulder would have cut it. No, we regret to say so, but the only hypothesis which seems to meet the facts is that Sir William was deliberately murdered.”</p>
			<p>“Good gracious, gentlemen, you don’t say so!” The chief constable seemed shocked, while the sergeant actually gasped.</p>
			<p>“I am afraid, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ames agrees with me, that there is no alternative. The blow on the back of the head was struck while Sir William was alive, and it could not have been self inflicted. It would have been sufficient to kill him. The other injuries occurred after death, and it is certain he was not drowned. There is no escape from the conclusion that I have stated. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe a deliberate and carefully thought out crime has been committed. Though it is hardly our province, it seemed to us the whole episode of the boat and the river was merely an attempt to hide the true facts by providing the suggestion of an accident. And I may perhaps be permitted to say that had a less observant and conscientious man than my colleague been called in, the ruse might easily have succeeded.”</p>
			<p>“You amaze me, sir,” exclaimed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Soames. “A terrible business! I knew the poor fellow well. I met him in Gateshead before he moved to these parts, and we have been good friends ever since. A sterling, good fellow as ever breathed! I cannot imagine anyone wishing him harm. However, it shows how little we know”⁠ ⁠… He turned to Inspector Tanner. “I presume, Inspector, you came here prepared to take over the case?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, sir; I was sent for that purpose.”</p>
			<p>“Well, the sooner you get to work the better. And now about the inquest. With the medical evidence there can be but one verdict.”</p>
			<p>“I think, sir,” observed Tanner, “that with your approval it might be wiser to hold that evidence back. It might put someone on his guard, who would otherwise give himself away. I should suggest formal evidence of identification, and an adjournment.”</p>
			<p>“Very possibly you are right, Inspector. What reason would you give for that procedure?”</p>
			<p>“I would say, sir, that it is desirable on technical grounds that some motive for Sir William’s taking out the boat should be discovered, and that the inquest is being adjourned to enable inquiries on this point to be made.”</p>
			<p>“Very well. I shall see the coroner and arrange it with him. It is not of course necessary for me to remind you of the importance of secrecy,” and with a bow Chief Constable Soames took his leave, and the meeting broke up.</p>
			<p>“Come along round and have some supper at the George,” Inspector Tanner invited the sergeant. “I’ve got a private room, and I want a talk over this business.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant, flushed with the honour, and delighting in his feeling of importance, accepted, and the two went out together.</p>
			<p>An hour later they lit up their pipes, and Tanner listened while the sergeant told him in detail all he knew of the affair. Then the Inspector unrolled a large-scale map he had brought, and spread it on the table.</p>
			<p>“I want,” he said, “to learn my way about. Just come and point out the places on the map. Here,” he pointed as he spoke, “is Halford, a place of, I suppose, 3,000 inhabitants.” The sergeant nodded and the other resumed. “This road running through the town from north to south is the main road from Bedford to London. Now, let’s see. Going towards London it crosses the Cranshaw River at the London side of Halford, and for about a mile both run nearly parallel. Then at the end of the mile, what’s this? A lane leading from the road to the river?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that’s what we call the Old Ferry. It’s a grass-grown lane through trees, and there’s a broken-down pier at the end of it.”</p>
			<p>“H’m. Then the river bears away towards the southeast; while the road continues almost due south. Luce Manor is here in this vee between them?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that’s it, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Then at the end of Luce Manor, a cross road runs from the Bedford-London road eastwards, crossing the river just above the falls and leading to Hitchin?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. That’s right.”</p>
			<p>“So that the Luce Manor grounds make a triangle bounded by the main London road, the cross road to Hitchin and the river.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector smoked in silence for some minutes. Then, rolling up the map, he went on:</p>
			<p>“Now I want to learn my dates, and also what weather you have been having. This is <time datetime="1920-07-08">Thursday</time> night, and it was, therefore, <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> night or early this morning the affair happened. Now what about the weather?”</p>
			<p>“We’ve had a lot of rain lately. It was wet up to last <time datetime="1920-07-05">Monday</time>. In the afternoon it cleared up, and it has been fine since⁠—that is, here. But farther up the country there has been a lot of thunder and heavy rain. That has left the river full for this time of year.”</p>
			<p>“Wet up till <time datetime="1920-07-05">Monday</time> afternoon, and fine since, I see. Well, sergeant, I think that’s about all we can do tonight. By the way, could you lend me a bicycle for the morning?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, I’ll leave it round now,” and with an exchange of good nights the men separated.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
