<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX: Lois Drew Takes a Hand</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Lois Drew Takes a Hand</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Just about the time that the arrest of Austin Ponson was taking place, Miss Lois Drew entered her drawing-room, and sitting down at the old Sheraton desk near the window, became immersed in her household accounts.</p>
			<p>The low ceilinged, green-tinted room was pleasantly cool on this hot, dusty morning. The bow window faced west, and so was shaded from the glare of the sun. The casements stood invitingly open to the warm, scent-laden air, which streamed gently in over the fragrant masses of colour in the flower beds without. The faint hum of honey-seeking insects fell soothingly and companionably on the ear. Now and then a sudden crescendo marked the swift passage of a bee, busily intent on its own affairs, while butterflies flitted aimlessly by with erratic, dancing movements. Beyond the garden a meadow stretched down to the river, in which cattle, immersed to the knees, stood motionless, enjoying the cool of the water. The surface of the reach was still and unruffled, and reflected as in a mirror the tree-covered slopes of the opposite bank. Restful and pleasant was the prospect without, and within, the whole atmosphere of the room breathed an equal contentment and peace.</p>
			<p>And no less pleasant and restful to the eye was the figure of the girl at the desk. Though hardly anyone would have called her beautiful, she had what was of much greater importance⁠—that elusive indefinable quality called charm. There was charm in her graceful movements, in the steady glance of her dark, lustrous eyes, in the ready smile which lit up her expressive face, and in the low, mellow tones of her musical voice. She bent over her task, working rapidly, carrying out the business of the moment as she did everything she undertook, quietly, unobtrusively, and efficiently.</p>
			<p>She had lived what most girls of her age would have called a dull and pleasureless life. Her mother, who had been the brains and the manager of the household, had died when she was fifteen, leaving the care of her kindly, idealistic, impractical father and her pretty, inconsequent younger sister on her hands. Almost unconsciously she had shouldered the burden, but a very real burden she soon found it. Though they lived comfortably, even well, they were far from being well off; indeed, before long the chronic strain of making ends meet became to her a veritable nightmare. But she carried on bravely with a smiling face, entirely forgetful of her own pleasure. If only her father could be spared worry, and her sister have as good an education and as much amusement as could be extracted from their circumstances. But if the strain had made her self-reliant and dependable, it had also somewhat aged her and given her a seriousness beyond her years. She had, however, her reward in the way her father, now a rapidly ageing man, idolised and leant on her, and in the exuberant affection of her sister.</p>
			<p>She had on this bright summer morning just completed her accounts, having with characteristic thoroughness at last run to earth a fugitive fivepence which for a considerable time had avoided capture. She was putting away her books when the elderly general servant brought in a note. It was addressed in Austin Ponson’s square, masculine hand. With a sudden irrational feeling of foreboding she waited till the woman had left the room, then tore it open, and with a clutching at the heart read:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header role="presentation">
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline"><time datetime="1920-07-21">21st July</time>.</p>
				</header>
				<p>“<span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear <span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Lois</span>:</span> I am writing this by the courtesy of Inspector Tanner of Scotland Yard, though he has warned me he will have to read it before sending it on. He tells me that some evidence has been received which throws suspicion of my father’s murder on me, and that he is bound to arrest me. I do not yet know the details. This is just to say, dearest, that of course I see that under the circumstances there can be no question of an engagement between us. I will live in hope that if this trouble passes over, you will perhaps allow me once again to plead my cause, but if this should be goodbye, I can only say I am innocent of this awful charge, and beg you to think as kindly of me as you can.</p>
				<footer role="presentation">
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">“Always yours devotedly,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">“Austin Ponson.”</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>For several minutes Lois Drew sat motionless, her white face hard and set, her horror-stricken eyes fastened on the fateful words. So the blow had fallen at last⁠—the terrible blow that ever since the Inspector’s visit she had feared day and night. Since the tragedy it had been as if some Dread Shade lurked, for the moment indeed in the background, but ready at any minute to step forward and intrude its baleful presence into Austin’s life and hers. For never for a moment had it occurred to her to break off the engagement, and now, though Austin had written of its cancellation as an obvious and indeed an accomplished fact, she never really allowed her mind to harbour the idea. Had she not promised to marry him? Very well, that was enough. If he had wanted her when all things were well, would he not want her tenfold now when trouble had come? But though she did not seriously consider his proposal, subconsciously she was pleased that he had made it so promptly. And she did not resent the cold tone of his note. She realised his feelings were sacred to him. Neither he nor she could have them weighed and sifted by an Inspector of police.</p>
			<p>As she sat, motionless in body and almost numb in mind, waiting unconsciously till the first rude shock should have somewhat passed over, she tried to consider the matter dispassionately. She knew that many persons arrested on suspicion were afterwards set at liberty, the charge against them breaking down on further investigation, and that of those actually brought to trial, a respectable percentage were acquitted. But she also knew that in a case like the present Scotland Yard would not order an arrest unless there were pretty strong grounds to go on. And this was particularly so where the accused had been under suspicion for some time, as she guessed from Tanner’s visit to herself Austin had been. But she was a good friend. In all her cogitations never once did the possibility of her lover’s guilt enter her thoughts. Of his innocence she was as certain as of her own existence.</p>
			<p>As time passed, her mind became clearer, and her practical common sense reasserted itself. What, she wondered, was she to do? She was so ignorant of the law, so unversed in its usages, so unaware of its possibilities. But she felt one thing demanded her immediate care. That impossible idea of breaking the engagement must be put out of Austin’s head without further delay. He must not be allowed to think for one moment that his trouble could make any difference to her. He must be made to feel she was not leaving him in the lurch.</p>
			<p>But how was she to communicate with him?</p>
			<p>She did not know whether he would be allowed to receive letters, but she fancied not. At all events there might be a delay in their delivery. She thought for a few moments, and then she took a sheet of paper and wrote as follows:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>“<span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear <span epub:type="z3998:recipient"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner</span>:</span> I have received the letter from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson which you were good enough to permit him to write and I wish to convey to you my grateful thanks for your consideration. In case it should be contrary to the rules for him to receive my reply direct, I write to ask whether you could possibly see your way to convey to him this message⁠—first, that I will not hear of our engagement being broken off; on the contrary, I am going to announce it immediately, and second, that though I know it is unnecessary to assure him of my absolute belief in him and in his innocence, I still wish to do so in the strongest manner possible.</p>
				<p>“I thought you were exceedingly kind on the day you called here, and I am sure that if you can do me this great favour you will.</p>
				<footer role="presentation">
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">“Yours sincerely,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">“Lois Drew.”</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>She addressed the envelope to “Inspector Tanner, Criminal Investigation Department, New Scotland Yard, London,” marking it “Personal.” Then putting on her hat, she walked quickly to the post office and dropped the letter into the receiver. She thought that many of the passersby looked at her curiously, but she was too much absorbed in her own thoughts to care.</p>
			<p>As she turned homewards it suddenly occurred to her that her cousin Jimmy might help her. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> James Daunt was junior partner of a London firm of solicitors, a clever, and she believed, a rising man, and who would have all the knowledge of the possibilities of the case which she lacked. Moreover, Jimmy was a decent soul, and a good friend of her own. They had seen a lot of each other as children, and she felt he would help her if he could.</p>
			<p>She turned into the local telephone office and put through a call. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> James Daunt was in his office. If she came to town he could see her at <time datetime="1920-07-21T17:00">five o’clock</time>.</p>
			<p>She travelled up by the <time datetime="1920-07-21T15:30">3:30</time> train, and at the hour named mounted the steps of the old house in Lincoln’s Inn. She was soon in her cousin’s room.</p>
			<p>“Hallo old girl!” he greeted her when the door had closed. “Jolly to see you. It’s not often you take pity on a lonely old bachelor like this. Sit down, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>She sank back into a deep, leather-lined armchair. They talked commonplaces for a few moments, and then Lois referred to the object of her call. She found it much harder to begin than she had expected, but when her cousin understood she was really in trouble he dropped his somewhat breezy manner and became serious and sympathetic.</p>
			<p>“Have you had tea?” he asked, interrupting her story.</p>
			<p>“Not yet. I came direct from the station.”</p>
			<p>“Then not a word till you’ve had it,” he declared. “Come out to a quiet little place I know. We can talk there without interruption.”</p>
			<p>Though she had not realised it, Lois was almost fainting for food. She had not eaten any lunch, and now the hot stimulant and the fresh rolls and butter did her more good than she could have thought possible. She smiled across at him.</p>
			<p>“I believe I was dying of hunger,” she announced.</p>
			<p>“Just like you,” he retorted, “at your old games again. Always thinking of somebody else, and forgetting your own much more important self.”</p>
			<p>“Well, you’ve probably saved my life. And now, Jimmy, I do want your help.”</p>
			<p>“I know, old girl. I don’t need to tell you I’ll do everything I can. Just start in and let’s have the whole story. You don’t mind if I smoke?”</p>
			<p>“Of course not. The first thing I have to tell you is⁠—that I have become engaged to be married.”</p>
			<p>“By Jove, you have!” cried Jimmy, jumping up and holding out his hand. “I hadn’t an inkling there was anything in the wind. Best possible congratulations, old girl. I think a cousinly salutation⁠—” they were alone in an alcove, and he kissed her lightly on the cheek. “And who’s the lucky man, if it’s not a secret?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, there’s no luck in it, Jimmy. That’s what I’ve come about. It’s Austin Ponson.”</p>
			<p>“Austin Ponson? How do you mean no luck? Why, dear girl, I congratulate you again. I have heard of him, and always that he was a white man through and through.”</p>
			<p>Tears trembled on Lois’s long eyelashes. It took all her strength of will to speak in her normal tone.</p>
			<p>“Dear Jimmy, you can’t think what it means to me to hear you say that. You evidently don’t know what has happened. He’s in frightful trouble.”</p>
			<p>Jimmy looked his question.</p>
			<p>“He’s just been arrested on the charge”⁠—Lois’s lip quivered in spite of herself⁠—“of murdering his father.”</p>
			<p>Her cousin whistled.</p>
			<p>“Good Lord!” he cried, “you don’t say so? Poor old girl.”</p>
			<p>“It’s terrible. Oh, Jimmy, what are we to do?”</p>
			<p>“It’s damnable. But you musn’t be downhearted. Many and many a man has been arrested for a crime he has known nothing about. Don’t get upset till we’re sure there is something to be upset about. Tell me the details.”</p>
			<p>She told him all she knew; of Austin’s visit at <time datetime="1920-07-07T23:00">eleven</time> on the fatal night, of the hoax that had been played on him, of their learning of Sir William’s disappearance the next day, of the inquest and its adjournment, of Tanner’s visit to her, of the adjourned inquest, and of Austin’s note, and her reply to it. He listened in silence till she had finished.</p>
			<p>“And you have no idea what this new evidence is?” he asked at last.</p>
			<p>“None whatever.”</p>
			<p>“Our first step will be to find that out. I think I can do that. Then if you give me authority to act for you, I’ll see him and hear what he has to say about it. That would probably be the quickest way to learn our defence.”</p>
			<p>“Could I see him, Jimmy?”</p>
			<p>Her cousin hesitated.</p>
			<p>“I hardly think so,” he said slowly, “at present. Later on if the case really goes to trial there should be no difficulty. Just for the immediate present I shouldn’t make a move. You have done enough for him, writing that letter to the Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Lois looked at him searchingly.</p>
			<p>“Don’t try to keep me away from him, Jimmy,” she pleaded.</p>
			<p>“Of course not. But it would be difficult for you to get an order, and you better wait till we see how things go on. You probably wouldn’t get two orders under any circumstances.”</p>
			<p>“If you keep me from him, I’ll never forgive you.”</p>
			<p>“Dear girl, don’t get notions. I wouldn’t attempt it. But we’re hardly so far on as that yet. There is his family to consider. Have you seen them?”</p>
			<p>“No. Why should I?”</p>
			<p>“Just that if they’re going to undertake the defence I don’t quite see where we come in. But we’ll find that out.” He paused and then went on: “Now, old girl, you’ve come to me for professional advice and you’re going to get it. Don’t think I’m trying to keep you away from Austin Ponson, but my advice to you is, don’t make any announcement of your engagement for a day or two yet. You will only distract and worry Ponson, and you won’t do any good. The thing to concentrate on is to get him out of the hands of the police. He’ll want all his wits to help with that. He knows you’re not going to drop him, and that will be enough to comfort him. Take my advice, Lois, and let things alone for the present.”</p>
			<p>“But how can I see him or do anything for him if the engagement is not known?”</p>
			<p>“What could you do if it was?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I could at least take my share of arranging for his defence.”</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you doing that now? What more do you think you could do?”</p>
			<p>“But how can you approach the family, acting for me, if it’s not known that we’re engaged?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly simply. I’ll see him, explain the facts, and get him to employ me. That will give me ten times the authority that you could, and it will leave his mind at rest about you. Believe me, Lois, that’s the thing to be done.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Jimmy, if you’ll do that it would make just all the difference. How good you are!”</p>
			<p>“Rubbish. But remember you’ve got to do your part⁠—to sit tight and say nothing. I’ll see all these people and arrange matters.”</p>
			<p>“But you’ll let me know how you get on?”</p>
			<p>“Sure. I’ll keep nothing back from you.”</p>
			<p>He asked her some more questions, finally seeing her to <abbr>St.</abbr> Pancras and putting her into the Halford train.</p>
			<p>“By Jove,” he soliloquised as he left the station, “here’s a mess! Whatever happens”⁠—he swore great oaths under his breath⁠—“Lois must be kept out of it. As decent a girl as lives! That’s the way with these extra good women⁠—they <em>will</em> throw themselves away on rotters of all kinds. Heavens, what an idea! To announce an engagement with a man arrested for murder! And now first of all to nip that madness in the bud⁠—<em>if</em> possible.” He hailed a taxi and was driven to Scotland Yard.</p>
			<p>“Is Inspector Tanner in?” he asked. “Private business.”</p>
			<p>Tanner, it appeared, was just going home, but had not yet left. He returned to his room.</p>
			<p>“My name,” began Jimmy, “is Daunt⁠—James Daunt, junior partner of Willington, Daunt &amp; Daunt, Solicitors, of Lincoln’s Inn.”</p>
			<p>Tanner bowed.</p>
			<p>“I know your firm, sir,” he said quietly.</p>
			<p>“I called on behalf of my cousin, Miss Lois Drew, of Halford. You can no doubt guess my business?”</p>
			<p>“You are going to act for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson?”</p>
			<p>“Not quite. At least I am not sure. It is my cousin I am really interested in. I want to ask your help, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner. My cousin, who is a little⁠—well, fond of her own way, has written you a letter, a compromising letter, one which should never have been written. You probably haven’t received it yet, but in it she asks you to inform <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson that she holds him to the engagement that they had just fixed up, and is going to announce it at once. Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner, you will see that this is quixotic and absurd, and it musn’t be allowed. I have succeeded in getting her to promise to say nothing for the present, and what I want to ask you is to be so good as to respect her confidence, and keep her name out of it.”</p>
			<p>Tanner looked somewhat distressed.</p>
			<p>“I should be only too glad,” he answered, “to do as you say, especially as I so greatly respected and admired what I saw of Miss Drew, if only it were possible. But I fear it won’t be. I am afraid the engagement will be an integral part of the Crown case. But I may say that I shall not use Miss Drew’s letter. Both she herself and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson told me of the engagement.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t say so? And have you mentioned it to anyone else?”</p>
			<p>“Only to my chief.”</p>
			<p>“Well, you know the case against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson, and I don’t. I can only ask that you don’t make the fact public until it is absolutely necessary.”</p>
			<p>“That I will promise you with pleasure.”</p>
			<p>“I am very grateful. And now there is another thing,” and Jimmy explained that he wanted to see Austin, and for what reason.</p>
			<p>“I shall certainly raise no objection,” Tanner answered, “but I’m afraid your application will have to go through the usual channel.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. When is he to be brought before the magistrate?”</p>
			<p>“<time datetime="1920-07-22T11:00">Tomorrow at eleven</time>.”</p>
			<p>Two hours later the door of Austin’s cell opened to admit the junior partner of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Willington, Daunt &amp; Daunt. Austin was sitting with his head on his hands and an expression of deep gloom on his face, but he rose with a look of inquiry as Jimmy entered.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson?” said the latter as he introduced himself. “I come on rather delicate business. It is on behalf of my cousin, Miss Lois Drew,” and he told of the interview which he had just had. Austin was much moved.</p>
			<p>“God bless her!” he cried hoarsely. “Isn’t it unbelievable, even for her! But it must be stopped, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Daunt, at all costs it must be stopped. Her name must be kept out of it no matter what happens.”</p>
			<p>Jimmy did not repeat what Tanner had told him.</p>
			<p>“I’m glad you agree, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson,” he said. “Now another point. May I ask who is acting for you in this matter?”</p>
			<p>Austin passed his hand, wearily over his forehead.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid I haven’t arranged anything yet. You see, I only arrived here a few hours ago.”</p>
			<p>“But who is your usual man of business?”</p>
			<p>“Any little thing I have wanted done up to the present I have taken to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hopkins, of Halford, and he was present at the adjourned inquest on my behalf. He is as straight as a die, but he is elderly, and I dare say out of date. I’m afraid he wouldn’t be much use at this kind of thing. Wills and deeds are more in his line. I wonder, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Daunt, if I asked you to take it on would it draw attention to Lois?”</p>
			<p>“It’s rather a delicate matter as it looks like cadging for business, but for Lois’s sake I should be glad to act for you. As for dragging in her name, I don’t think half a dozen people in the world know we are cousins, and at Halford probably no one. Besides, you would not employ me, but the firm.”</p>
			<p>“Then I do employ your firm⁠—if you will be good enough to act. What is the first step?”</p>
			<p>“The first legal step is to be present in court on your behalf <time datetime="1920-07-22">tomorrow</time>. Then I shall get hold of the case against you, after which we will put our heads together over your defence. But there is also your own family to consider. Have you any near relatives other than your mother, sister, and cousin?”</p>
			<p>“None.”</p>
			<p>“I presume you would like me to take them into our confidence?”</p>
			<p>Austin agreed and they discussed the matter further, arranging terms and other details.</p>
			<p>“Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson,” said Jimmy when these were settled, “I have to give you a very solemn warning. Your very life may depend on how you heed it. It is this. You must tell me the truth. I don’t mean refrain from falsehood only, but tell me everything⁠—<em>everything</em> you know. It is only fair to say that if you hold anything back I can no longer help you, and you may be signing your own death warrant. Do you realise that?”</p>
			<p>“I certainly do. You need not be afraid. I’ll be only too thankful to tell you. Now ask your questions.”</p>
			<p>“You forget I know nothing of the case as yet. Just tell me the whole business from beginning to end and with all the details you can.”</p>
			<p>Austin sat motionless for a moment as if collecting his thoughts, then, settling himself more comfortably, he began to speak.</p>
			<p>He opened by explaining his relations with his father, and his mode of life in Halford, and then described his friendship with Lois Drew, culminating in his proposal and the engagement. He told of the note he had received on that fatal <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> evening, his taking the boat to the Old Ferry, the self-styled servant of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Franklyn, her message, his walk to the Abbey, his visit to the Franklyns’ house, and his call at the Drews. Then he recounted the circumstances of Sir William’s death, the call from Innes, the inquiries at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham’s, the search for and discovery of the body, the subsequent inquest, the interview with Tanner, the latter’s questions, and the demand for the shoes, and finally, the medical evidence at the adjourned inquest, and his arrest. He stated he had no idea what the discovery was which led to this culmination.</p>
			<p>It was clear to Jimmy Daunt that he must hear Tanner’s side of it before he knew where they stood. Nothing more could be done that night. He therefore told his new client to keep his heart up, took his leave and went home.</p>
			<p>The proceedings next morning were purely formal, evidence of arrest only being given. Austin was remanded for a week, bail being refused.</p>
			<p>Daunt made it his business to see Lady Ponson, Enid, and Cosgrove, all of whom expressed themselves as being heartily in agreement with Austin’s selection of advice. It was decided that if the case went on to trial, Sir Mortimer Byecroft, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism z3998:name-title">K.C.</abbr>, one of the most eminent criminal experts at the bar, should be retained for the defence.</p>
			<p>When Daunt received the depositions of the crown witnesses, he saw at a glance that he was up against something very much stiffer than he had anticipated. The motive suggested for the crime was horribly adequate. In the face of Austin’s story of his visit to the Abbey ruins, the evidence of Lucy Penrose and young Potts was almost overwhelmingly damaging. But when Daunt read of the purchase of the two identical pairs of shoes, and grasped the theory of the faked alibi which this seemed to support he was genuinely aghast. “Heavens!” he thought, “if the fellow hasn’t an explanation of this, he’s as guilty as sin!”</p>
			<p>Accordingly, Daunt lost no time in again seeing his client, and at his interview he did not mince matters.</p>
			<p>“Look here, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ponson,” he said. “There are two bad bits of evidence against you and I want to hear what you have to say about them. About <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:30">9:30 that night</time> you tell me you were halfway to the Abbey. Is that so?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly. I was on the path between the Abbey and the road.”</p>
			<p>Daunt leant forward and watched the other keenly, as he spoke slowly and deliberately.</p>
			<p>“Then how do you account for the fact that you were seen rowing a boat up to the Luce Manor boathouse at just that hour?”</p>
			<p>Austin Ponson started and his face grew dead white. He sat motionless for several seconds gazing with terrified eyes, at his questioner, and apparently unable to speak.</p>
			<p>“What’s that you say?” he gasped at last, licking his dry lips. “Impossible! I⁠—I wasn’t there.” He dropped his head into his hands while the sweat stood in drops on his forehead. Daunt waited silently. His doubts were becoming confirmed. The man surely was guilty.</p>
			<p>Presently Austin raised his head.</p>
			<p>“This is awful news,” he said hoarsely. “I can only say I wasn’t there. I swear it. There is a mistake. There must be. Who is supposed to have seen me? And from where?”</p>
			<p>In Daunt’s opinion the answer was unconvincing. The man’s manner was shifty. Unless Jimmy was greatly mistaken he was lying. He replied somewhat coldly:</p>
			<p>“Two people in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Graham’s wood at the other side of the river are prepared to swear to it.”</p>
			<p>“Two?” Austin groaned. “My God! How can they? They must have seen someone else, and mistaken him for me.”</p>
			<p>“Suppose it was proved there was no other boat down the river that night but yours. What will you say then?”</p>
			<p>“What can I say? I don’t understand it. That could not be proved⁠—unless someone took my boat from the Old Ferry.” He sat up eagerly and a gleam came into his eye. “Could that be it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Daunt? Could whoever worked the trick on me have been watching at the Old Ferry, and have taken my boat when I went ashore? What do you think?”</p>
			<p>This was an idea which had not occurred to Daunt, and he instantly saw that it might account for the whole thing. Suppose the real murderer, knowing of Austin’s financial relations with his father, had seen how that fact could be used as the basis of a case against the son, and had added details to strengthen it. Suppose he had forged notes, getting Austin to bring a boat to the Old Ferry, and, leaving it there, go to the Abbey. Meanwhile he himself, made up to represent Austin, might have taken the boat to the boathouse, committed the murder and returned the boat to the Old Ferry before Austin arrived back? Daunt felt that this was a possibility which must not be overlooked. It might at any rate be a line of defence.</p>
			<p>Then he remembered the shoes. No. If Austin had deliberately made a fake with the shoes, he must be guilty. He spoke again.</p>
			<p>“Unfortunately, there is another very serious point. Your alibi depends on the fact that the prints made at the Abbey were made by shoes which it can be proved you were wearing on that <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> night and at no other time. Isn’t that so?”</p>
			<p>“That is so.”</p>
			<p>“How many pairs of that kind of shoe had you?”</p>
			<p>“One pair.”</p>
			<p>“Then how do you explain the fact that you bought two pairs on the <time datetime="1920-07-05">Monday</time> before the murder?”</p>
			<p>This time Austin showed no signs of embarrassment.</p>
			<p>“I bought two⁠—yes,” he answered readily, “but I only brought one home. I lost the other.”</p>
			<p>“Lost the other? Just how?”</p>
			<p>“Very simply. I went that <time datetime="1920-07-05">Monday</time> to Hunt’s shoe shop in Piccadilly and there I bought a pair of shoes. I had them carefully fitted, and was pleased with them. The shopman gave me a card with their number, in case I should want to replace them. I took them with me, as I was hurrying to catch the <time datetime="1920-07-05T15:25">3:25</time> train from <abbr>St.</abbr> Pancras. I had to call at a shop in Regent Street, and I walked there. But as I stepped off the footpath to cross the street, a lorry I hadn’t seen came quickly up, and I had to jump back out of its way. I was startled, and I unfortunately dropped the shoes. As luck would have it they were run over by the lorry. A hawker picked them up and returned them, but one was badly torn, so, as they were no further use to me, I made him a present of them. That left me without any, so I decided to replace them. I noticed another of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Hunt’s shops close by, and I went in and asked for shoes of the number on the card. That saved me from a troublesome refitting. By the time my purchase was complete I was late for my train. I therefore waited till the <time datetime="1920-07-05T17:15">5:15</time>. Does that make the matter clear?”</p>
			<p>Daunt was relieved, but somewhat puzzled by what he had heard. Unquestionably, Austin’s explanation was plausible, and he could see no reason why it should not be true. If the hawker who got the shoes could be found it would set this part of the matter at rest, but Daunt feared he would be untraceable. He felt doubtful and dissatisfied in his mind about the whole affair, but he saw that Austin’s statements provided a line of defence, though whether the best available he was not yet certain.</p>
			<p>Still turning the idea over in his mind he went down the next <time datetime="1920-07-24">Saturday</time> to Halford, to spend, on the earnest invitation of Lois, the weekend with the Drews.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
