<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X: A Woman’s Wit</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Woman’s Wit</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>After dinner on that <time datetime="1920-07-24">Saturday</time> evening, Lois Drew had a long conversation with her cousin, James Daunt. She waited until he was seated in the most comfortable chair in the drawing-room with his cigar well under way, and then she spoke of the subject next her heart.</p>
			<p>“Tell me, Jimmy,” she begged, “just what you <em>really</em> think. I want to understand exactly what we have to meet.”</p>
			<p>He told her. Directly and without any attempt to gloss over the uglier facts, he told her all he knew. She listened in silence for the most part, but occasionally interjected shrewd, pertinent questions. Jimmy, who knew and respected his cousin’s intellect, yet marvelled at her grip, her power of letting go irrelevant details, and the unhesitating way in which she went straight to the essential heart of the various points. When he had finished she remained silent for a considerable time.</p>
			<p>“It seems to me then,” she said at last, “that Austin’s suggestion must be the truth⁠—that the murderer forged the notes purporting to be from me, and which brought Austin to the Abbey that night, that he waited for Austin’s arrival at the Old Ferry, that either he had an accomplice there or he himself was disguised as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Franklyn’s servant, that on Austin’s leaving for the Abbey he made himself up to look like Austin, that he rowed to the boathouse, committed the murder, and returned the boat to the Old Ferry before Austin got back. What do you think, Jimmy?”</p>
			<p>“It seems a possible defence.”</p>
			<p>“It seems more than that; it seems to be what happened. If so, let us consider what that teaches us about the murderer. Several things, I think. Tell me if I go wrong. Firstly, he must have had a strong motive for Sir William’s death. Secondly, he must have known all about the family⁠—Sir William’s habits, the lie of Luce Manor, the household arrangements, and that sort of thing. Thirdly, he must have been acquainted with Austin, and <em>his</em> house and habits, and fourthly, he must not only have been aware of my existence and friendship with Austin, but he must have had my handwriting to copy. Surely there can’t be many persons in the world to whom all these conditions apply?”</p>
			<p>“One would say not,” Daunt returned slowly. “It’s very unfortunate, of course, but you must see how the prosecution will use all these points you bring up⁠—every one of them can be turned against Austin.”</p>
			<p>“I know, but that’s only wasting time. The fact that Austin’s innocence rules him out surely makes the search for the real murderer easier?”</p>
			<p>“Why, that is so, I suppose.” Daunt tried to make his voice cheery and sanguine.</p>
			<p>“Very well. I came to that conclusion days ago. Now Jimmy, it’s a horrible thing to say, but who is the only other person we know of that fits the conditions?”</p>
			<p>Daunt looked up swiftly. It was suddenly evident to him that Lois was speaking with a more direct object than he had thought.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know, Lois,” he answered. “Who?”</p>
			<p>“Who but the cousin⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove Ponson?”</p>
			<p>“Good Heavens! That never occurred to me. But does he fill the bill?”</p>
			<p>“I have thought so for some time, but it’s a matter for you to find out. But just consider. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove benefits by the will⁠—Austin told me so. He knew Sir William and all about Luce Manor; he knew Austin and all about <em>him</em>; he was like Austin in appearance; and lastly he knew me⁠—he has dined here with Austin.”</p>
			<p>“Your handwriting?”</p>
			<p>“I wrote to thank him for sending me the name of an English <i xml:lang="fr">pension</i> at Cannes⁠—a friend of mine wanted to know.”</p>
			<p>“When was that?”</p>
			<p>“About two months ago.”</p>
			<p>“Seems rather a long time. And when did he dine?”</p>
			<p>“About a week before that. I happened to mention about the <i xml:lang="fr">pension</i>, and he said he had some addresses and would look them up.”</p>
			<p>“And what kind of man is he personally?”</p>
			<p>Lois did not reply for some moments.</p>
			<p>“That’s hardly a fair question,” she said at last. “I have to admit taking a dislike to him. But it’s not a question of my likes or dislikes. I think it is essential that you should find out something about him. Find out where he was on that <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> evening.”</p>
			<p>Daunt smoked in silence. He was thinking that if Austin were out of the way as well as Sir William, Cosgrove’s gains would not improbably be considerably increased. There might be something in this idea of Lois’s after all. A few inquiries would do no harm at any rate.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said at last, “I’ll do as you say. I’ll find out something about him.”</p>
			<p>They continued the discussion, and it was arranged that as soon as any information was forthcoming, Lois would go to town, and they would have another talk.</p>
			<p>As Sir William Ponson’s will was to be one of the factors in the Crown case, Daunt had no difficulty in obtaining a copy. That, and a few judicious inquiries convinced him of the importance of Lois’s suggestion. There seemed no question that Cosgrove’s motive for the deed was at least as strong as Austin’s.</p>
			<p>For some time Daunt puzzled over the best way to get hold of his information. Then it occurred to him that so wide-awake an official as an Inspector of Scotland Yard would certainly have foreseen and considered all that he and Lois had discussed. As Cosgrove had not been arrested, there must be some flaw in the case he was trying to make. He decided to see Tanner once more, in the hope of gaining some information.</p>
			<p>With a man like Tanner there was nothing to be gained by any but the most direct methods. Daunt could ask for what he wanted, and either get it or be refused, but he felt he could not obtain it by a trick. To try his luck he called at the Yard and inquired for the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“I want to get some information, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner,” he said, when they had conversed for a few moments. “I’m going to ask you for it in confidence, but you may not consider it proper to give it to me, and if so, there is of course no more to be said. It’s not directly about the case.”</p>
			<p>“What is it, sir?”</p>
			<p>“It’s this. In going into this matter it has struck me that the nephew, Cosgrove Ponson, had as much to gain by his uncle’s death as the accused. It is obvious that that must have struck you also. I wondered if you would tell me why you acquitted him in your mind?”</p>
			<p>“Now don’t you get astray on that notion, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Daunt. It won’t wash. I went into that, and I may tell you for your private information Cosgrove is as innocent as you are.”</p>
			<p>“So I gathered from your action, in the matter, but if you could see your way to give me particulars, I should be greatly obliged. You see, it’s Miss Drew. She’s got it into her head Cosgrove was the man, and I’d like to be able to clear the thing up to her.”</p>
			<p>Tanner thought for some moments.</p>
			<p>“I’d like to oblige both you and Miss Drew,” he said, “but I’m not just sure that I ought. However, as you say, it’s not exactly on the case, and if you give me your word to keep the thing to yourself I’ll tell you.”</p>
			<p>“I promise most gratefully.”</p>
			<p>“Very well. The man has an alibi,” and Tanner repeated Cosgrove’s story of the visit to Montrose, the missing of the <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:15">7:15</time>, the return to his rooms, the call at the theatre on Miss Belcher, and the final journey north by the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time>. Then he explained how he had checked Cosgrove’s statements, and produced his calculation of times and distances, showing that Cosgrove could not have motored to Luce Manor.</p>
			<p>To Daunt the whole thing seemed utterly conclusive. Apart from the mere fact that it had satisfied Tanner⁠—no mean test⁠—he could not himself see any possibility of a flaw. With considerable apprehension of the disappointment Lois would feel, he telephoned to her and arranged their consultation for that evening.</p>
			<p>She heard his story almost in silence. But she did not show the chagrin he expected.</p>
			<p>“If the thing was obvious,” she said in answer to his comment, “Cosgrove would have been arrested and not Austin. But I feel absolutely certain that that alibi of Cosgrove’s is a fraud. He has tricked Inspector Tanner. How he has done it is what you’ve got to find out.”</p>
			<p>“My dear girl,” Daunt remonstrated, “it’s all very well to talk like that, and I’ll do my best of course, but you know, if Tanner with all his opportunities was taken in, it’s not too likely I shall find the flaw.”</p>
			<p>“It’s quite likely,” she declared. “Inspector Tanner was not specially looking for a flaw; you are. Don’t you see⁠—there must be a flaw. Look at it like this. A man resembling Austin was met by Sir William at the boathouse on that <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> night. It <em>must</em> have been Cosgrove, because no one else is sufficiently like Austin to be mistaken for him. No kind of facial makeup will meet the case, because Sir William himself evidently was satisfied. Therefore Cosgrove’s alibi must be false. Don’t you agree with me?”</p>
			<p>“It seems reasonable,” Jimmy admitted. “But the alibi certainly looks right enough too.”</p>
			<p>“I admit that. It may be so good that we’ll never find the flaw. But we must try. Oh, Jimmy,” she turned to him beseechingly, “remember what is at stake⁠—his life⁠—both our lives. You will try, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Of course I’ll try, and what’s more, I expect to succeed,” Jimmy lied bravely. And he spoke in the same confident tone as, after dinner, he went to the station with her, and saw her off by the <time datetime="21:30">9:30</time> to Halford. But his secret feelings were very different.</p>
			<p>Two days later he had another call from Lois.</p>
			<p>“You needn’t be frightened,” she smiled at him; “I am not going to haunt the office and make your life a burden to you. But I have been thinking over our problem. I want you, Jimmy, to begin an investigation. Will you?”</p>
			<p>“Why certainly, if I can. What is it?”</p>
			<p>“If you haven’t time yourself, and I don’t expect you will have, employ a private detective. But get a good man who will do the work thoroughly.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, yes. But what exactly is to be done?”</p>
			<p>“This. The evidence seems to me overwhelming that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove missed the <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:15">7:15</time> at King’s Cross on that <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> night, and went to Montrose by the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time>. But what did he do in between?”</p>
			<p>Daunt was puzzled.</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand,” he said. “We have the butler’s and Miss Belcher’s evidence to corroborate Cosgrove’s own story there. I don’t see that we can reasonably doubt he did what he said.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you? But I do. Probably both these people were interested. Miss Belcher we know was⁠—she was on too friendly terms not to be. And the butler may have been well paid to tell his story. Another thing makes me doubt Miss Belcher. You remember the conversation <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner overheard between her and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove in the restaurant? They mentioned an alibi. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner thought they were talking about Austin. I don’t believe it. It was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove’s own alibi they were discussing. What do you think?”</p>
			<p>“It’s possible, of course,” Daunt answered slowly, “but I question if we can be sure of it.” He began to think Lois had got an obsession.</p>
			<p>“Well, whether or not is immaterial. What matters is that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove’s whereabouts after <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:30">7:30</time> has not been proved.”</p>
			<p>“But you forget Tanner’s time table. Cosgrove wouldn’t have had time to go to Luce Manor between the trains.”</p>
			<p>“Yes!” cried Lois excitedly, “he would! That’s the point I’ve been coming to. According to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner’s calculations he would have had time or almost time, to go to Luce Manor and back, but he wouldn’t have had time to commit the murder. But <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner assumed he had first driven to his rooms. If he had gone direct from King’s Cross he would have had time for all.”</p>
			<p>This was a new idea to Daunt, and he had to admit its possibility.</p>
			<p>“It may be so certainly,” he answered, “but how are we to prove it? That butler won’t give himself away if he has lied.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve thought of that, too, and there seems to be one way we might get at it. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove said he took three drives during that time⁠—first, from King’s Cross to Knightsbridge; second, from Knightsbridge to the Empire; and third, from the Follies’, to King’s Cross. Could we not find the cabmen, or at least one of them?”</p>
			<p>“By Jove, Lois, you should have been a detective,” Daunt said with half-unwilling admiration. “I believe it’s a good notion.”</p>
			<p>“You see, if we were to search for these men thoroughly and fail to find them, it would greatly strengthen my theory. On the other hand, if we found them we would be sure of what we are up against, for if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cosgrove took any one of the drives, his statement must be true. Will you try to find them, Jimmy? Or”⁠—her eyes brightened eagerly⁠—“let’s do it together. Would you mind?”</p>
			<p>“Mind?” he echoed. “Dear girl, what do you take me for? I’m ready to begin now⁠—in collaboration with you, that is.”</p>
			<p>“Dear Jimmy, you are so good. I can never thank you enough.”</p>
			<p>“What utter rubbish. Now let’s get to work. Have you made any plans?”</p>
			<p>“I thought perhaps we could get lists from the taxi companies of the men on the various stands. Then I thought we could see all those on the stands nearest the three starting points. If it was none of these could we not send a letter to each driver in London⁠—get some office supplies place to do it, you know? If this failed we might try newspaper advertisements.”</p>
			<p>“Excellent. We could get the lists of the men through Tanner, if he would give them. I’ll ring him up now.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Tanner was at the Yard. On Daunt satisfying him as to the reason of the demand, he promised to have the information looked up and supplied.</p>
			<p>The next day the lists came and the cousins set off to commence their investigations. They saw a number of the men on the stands in question, others at the depots and still others at their homes. After three strenuous days they had gone over them all. But they learnt nothing. None of the men had driven Cosgrove.</p>
			<p>“It’s hopeful,” Lois announced as they dined together that evening, “but we must now try the circular.”</p>
			<p>They drafted a letter offering a reward of £5 for information as to the identity of the man who had driven a fare answering to Cosgrove’s description on any of the three trips in question. With this Daunt called to see Tanner on the following morning. He told him what they had done, and what they proposed, and asked for a complete list of the taxi and cabdrivers of London. Tanner, nothing loath to have his own conclusions verified, had the information made out. Then Daunt went to an office supplies firm in New Oxford Street, and arranged for a circular to be sent to each man on the list⁠—several thousand.</p>
			<p>Two days passed and there was no answer, but on the third day a taxi-driver giving his name as John Hoskins called at Daunt’s office. Jimmy saw him at once.</p>
			<p>“It was abaht this ’ere letter,” said the man. “I guess I’m the man you want.”</p>
			<p>“Yes? You drove a fare on one of those trips on that <time datetime="1920-07-07">Wednesday</time> evening?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. I were just passing out of King’s Cross after setting down a lady and gent, when the gent ’e hails me, ‘Engaged?’ ’e asks. ‘No, sir,’ I says. ‘174B Knightsbridge,’ ’e says. I drove ’im there, and that’s all I knows abaht it.”</p>
			<p>Daunt opened a drawer and took out half a dozen cabinet photographs, which, in unconscious imitation of Tanner, he had procured. One was of Cosgrove, the others of men as like Cosgrove as Jimmy could find.</p>
			<p>“Is the man you drove among those?” he asked, handing them over.</p>
			<p>The driver glanced over them and unhesitatingly picked out Cosgrove’s.</p>
			<p>“That’s ’im, mister,” he said decisively.</p>
			<p>“And what time did you pick him up?”</p>
			<p>“Abaht <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:30">7:30</time>. I left ’im in Knightsbridge at a <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:45">quarter to eight</time>.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right, my man. It’s what I wanted to know. If you give me your name and address I’ll give you the five pounds.”</p>
			<p>Jimmy telegraphed the news to Lois at Halford, using for the benefit of the postal officials a code on which they had previously agreed. The information, he feared, would be a heavy blow to her. She had so confidently made up her mind that Cosgrove was the guilty man, and here was proof⁠—to Daunt it seemed final and conclusive proof⁠—of his innocence. Even Lois herself had admitted that if Cosgrove had indeed returned to his rooms after leaving King’s Cross, it would have been impossible for him to have visited Luce Manor⁠—times and distances made that certain. Miss Belcher’s confirmation of his visit to the Follies, and the discovery of the other two taxi drivers were therefore not required. As matters stood, Cosgrove’s innocence was demonstrated.</p>
			<p>So Daunt reasoned, but not so Lois Drew. As she tossed sleepless on her bed that night she racked her brains for some flaw in the case, some loophole that might save her lover. But the more she thought it over, the more hopeless it seemed. As dawn brightened slowly into day she had to admit herself beaten. And then, just as a delightful drowsiness began to creep over her restless, wearied body, an idea flashed into her mind. She remained motionless, hardly daring to breathe as its full significance gradually dawned upon her. When it did so all chance of sleep vanished. Her eyes became very bright, and she laughed contentedly to herself.</p>
			<p>She travelled to town by an early train and was in Daunt’s office soon after it opened. She received his condolences quietly, then startled him by saying demurely:</p>
			<p>“I want you to send out another circular to the taxi-men, Jimmy. I have it here.”</p>
			<p>The paper she handed him read:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>“Ten Pounds Reward</p>
				</header>
				<p>“The above reward will be paid to the taxi driver who picked up a fare”⁠—here followed a description of Cosgrove⁠—“about <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:50">7:50 on Wednesday evening, 7th July</time>, in or near Knightsbridge, on his identifying the man picked up from a photograph, and saying where he was set down. Apply⁠—” and here followed Jimmy’s address.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“But my dear girl,” the latter objected, “we have already sent that out, or practically that.”</p>
			<p>“Never mind, Jimmy,” she said, with one of the brilliant smiles that lit up her face and made it momentarily beautiful. “Do this for me, and don’t ask questions.” Before he realized what she was going to do, she had kissed him lightly on the forehead, and with a whirl of skirts was gone.</p>
			<p>“By Jove!” said Jimmy weakly to himself as the door closed. “What bee has she got in her bonnet now? At any rate she might have waited and explained.” But he did what he had been asked, and two days later the new circular was in the hands of the taxi-men.</p>
			<p>And it bore early fruit. Only a few hours after its distribution there was an answer. A small, sallow, rat-faced man in a peaked cap and leather coat called to see Daunt.</p>
			<p>“You think you picked up the man described in the letter?” asked Jimmy, as he produced his six photographs. “Was he one of these?”</p>
			<p>Like his confrère of a day or two earlier, the man glanced over the cards and unhesitatingly drew out Cosgrove’s portrait.</p>
			<p>“That’s ’im, mister,” he also said decisively.</p>
			<p>“Where exactly did you pick him up?”</p>
			<p>“In Knightsbridge, not far from Piccadilly.”</p>
			<p>“At what time?”</p>
			<p>“About <time datetime="1920-07-07T19:50">ten minutes to eight</time>.”</p>
			<p>“And where did you set him down?”</p>
			<p>“Over thirty miles away⁠—at a crossroads away beyond Luton.”</p>
			<p>James Daunt sprang excitedly to his feet.</p>
			<p>“What?” he roared. “Where did you say?” Here, surely, was the impossible! All were agreed that Cosgrove could not have made the run in the time, and yet, it now seemed, he had done so. And then the thought of the tremendous consequences of this discovery overwhelmed every other consideration. If Cosgrove had really been to Luce Manor, particularly after his own denial, he must unquestionably be guilty. And if he were guilty, Austin was innocent. Jimmy believed he now held the evidence which would save his client.</p>
			<p>He thought rapidly for a few seconds.</p>
			<p>“At what hour did you reach this crossroads?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“About <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:45">quarter-past nine</time>, sir. I remember noticing when I was making up the money.”</p>
			<p>And the bogus servant met Austin at the Old Ferry about then! Truly this was a great find!</p>
			<p>“Are you engaged within the next hour or two?” Jimmy went on.</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Very good. Will you drive me to this crossroads? I’ll make it worth your while.”</p>
			<p>They stopped at a post office and Jimmy sent a telegram to Lois asking her to be at the end of the Old Ferry lane at <time datetime="12:00">midday</time>. Then the run began.</p>
			<p>As the vehicle slipped quickly through the traffic, Daunt chuckled with delight. Though he did not in the least understand how Cosgrove had managed it, it was at least evident that he had visited Luce Manor before taking the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time> to Montrose. And that, Daunt felt more than ever certain, meant his guilt and the breakdown of the case against Austin. Though, to do him justice, Jimmy’s chief joy was the thought of the happiness this would bring to Lois, yet he was human enough to realise the kudos which must come to him personally from the skilful way he had unravelled the mystery. And yet, had he unravelled it? As he looked back he had to admit that every particle of credit must go to the girl. She it was who had suggested the steps which had led to success⁠—she who had evidently guessed the solution which even now still eluded him.</p>
			<p>In about an hour and a half they reached their destination, and Jimmy, who knew the district from his visits to the Drews, saw with satisfaction that the point was where the Halford-London road crossed that which passed over the river bridge above the Cranshaw Falls. From there to the Old Ferry was about ten minutes’ smart walk, and, if the taxi-man’s statement was correct, Cosgrove could therefore have reached Austin’s boat about <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:25">9:25</time>. It would take him ten minutes or more to row to the Luce Manor boathouse, so that he would arrive there, say, between <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:30">9:30</time> and <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:40">9:40</time>. This was quite sufficiently in accordance with the statement of Lucy Penrose and young Potts that they had seen the boat arriving about <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:30">half-past nine</time>. Jimmy recognised delightedly that the whole thing was working in.</p>
			<p>It was still about <time datetime="11:45">quarter to twelve</time>, and Jimmy had the taxi run slowly on to the Old Ferry lane. Lois was already there, and he lost no time in putting her in possession of the facts.</p>
			<p>“You guessed that this happened?” he queried.</p>
			<p>“Yes. I suddenly thought of it in bed, the night before I came up to see you.”</p>
			<p>“But I can’t make head nor tail of it,” Jimmy confessed. “Now it seems that Cosgrove must have been at the boathouse between <time datetime="1920-07-07T21:30">half-past nine</time> and <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:00">ten</time>, and yet he caught the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time> from King’s Cross, where he couldn’t have arrived till at least <time datetime="1920-07-07T23:30">11:30</time>. The thing’s an absolute puzzle to me. Can you see light?”</p>
			<p>“Of course. He never caught the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time> at all.”</p>
			<p>“But, my dear girl, he did⁠—he must have. You forget the porter at Grantham and the dealer at Montrose.”</p>
			<p>“Not at all. He travelled no doubt by the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time> from Grantham to Montrose. But that’s a very different thing. I’ll tell you, Jimmy, what’s puzzling you. You haven’t studied your Great Northern time table as I have. The <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time> is not the only train in the day from London.”</p>
			<p>Daunt waited.</p>
			<p>“Well?” he said impatiently.</p>
			<p>“Before that <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time>, as you might have known from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner’s story of his own movements, there runs a pickup train. It leaves King’s Cross at <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:00">10:00</time> and reaches Grantham at <time datetime="1920-07-08T00:28">12:28</time>, ten minutes before the <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:30">10:30</time>. And that train, Jimmy, stops at three or four stations. It stops”⁠—she leant forward and whispered in his ear with an air of triumph⁠—“<em>it stops at Hitchin at <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:45">10:45</time>!</em>”</p>
			<p>“And Hitchin is only six miles from here! Good Heavens, how stupid not to have seen that! Of course that’s what he did! After the murder he motored to Hitchin and caught the relief train. Well, Lois, you deserve all you’re going to get for thinking of it!”</p>
			<p>“But we’re not quite out of the wood yet,” the girl reminded him. “We have to find out how he went from here to Hitchin.”</p>
			<p>“Probably by the taxi,” suggested Daunt, and they returned to where the vehicle was waiting.</p>
			<p>But his guess was incorrect. The driver assured them that on reaching the crossroads Cosgrove had paid him off and he had returned at once to London.</p>
			<p>“I thought of that first,” said Lois, “then I thought not, that he would never have let any one man have so much information about his movements. Then I wondered if he wouldn’t have arranged for a vehicle from Halford to pick him up, but I saw that wouldn’t do either. At last I thought the most obvious and indeed the least suspicious plan would be to engage a car in Hitchin to run out for him. What do you think?”</p>
			<p>“I believe you are right. Let’s run over to Hitchin now and make inquiries.”</p>
			<p>They reached the town in about quarter of an hour. There they paid off their taxi, having noted the man’s name and address. Then after a hurried lunch they got to work.</p>
			<p>At the first and second garages they drew blank, but at the third they had success. It appeared that late on the <time datetime="1920-07-05">Monday</time> evening before the murder, a man, whom the proprietor instantly identified from the photograph as Cosgrove, called and asked for a car to be sent to the same crossroads near Luce Manor. It was to be there on the following <time datetime="1920-07-07T22:15">Wednesday evening at 10:15</time>, and was to wait for him and run him into Hitchin. He gave no explanation of his movements, but he turned up at the place a few minutes after the hour named, and was duly brought to Hitchin and set down near the George Hotel. Daunt had the driver sent for, and he stated he had seen his fare’s face in the light of a street lamp when he was being paid, and he also unhesitatingly selected Cosgrove’s photograph as that of the man.</p>
			<p>“How far is it from the George Hotel to the station?” asked Daunt.</p>
			<p>“Three minutes’ walk, sir.”</p>
			<p>Here at last was proof⁠—utter and final proof. As the cousins left the garage Jimmy once more congratulated his companion on her success.</p>
			<p>“But we’re not finished yet, Jimmy,” she answered him. “We have to find the woman⁠—the false servant.”</p>
			<p>“You think it couldn’t have been Cosgrove?”</p>
			<p>Lois shook her head.</p>
			<p>“He could never have deceived Austin. Besides, the hours don’t work. Cosgrove could hardly have reached the Old Ferry till after Austin had left. In any case Cosgrove would never have had time to make up so well.”</p>
			<p>“I agree with you. Then our next job is, cherchez la femme. Have you any ideas as to how we should start?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know if you will agree with me,” Lois answered slowly, “but I wonder if we should not take <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner into our confidence. He has been very straight and very kind all through, and I’m sure if he knew what we have learned he would take over the finding of the woman.”</p>
			<p>“By Jove, Lois, I believe you are right in this as in everything else. I’ll go and see him now. Would you care to come too?”</p>
			<p>“No. I think you could do that best alone. I’ll come to town with you and hear your report.”</p>
			<p>They went up by the Great Northern, and Daunt drove to Scotland Yard. Inspector Tanner was out.</p>
			<p>“I am the solicitor who is acting for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Austin Ponson⁠—you know, the Halford murder⁠—and I bring some very material information about the case. I should like to see someone in authority.”</p>
			<p>He was asked to wait and presently was ushered into the presence of Chief Inspector Edgar. This official had followed the case with Tanner, and he heard Daunt’s story with thinly veiled amazement.</p>
			<p>“It’s the most extraordinary case I have come across for many a year,” he exclaimed. “That makes two suspects, and Tanner’s off to Portugal after a third.”</p>
			<p>“Good Lord! To Portugal?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, with an extradition warrant and all complete. Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Daunt, I needn’t say how grateful we are to you and Miss Drew for what you have done, and you may count on your information receiving the fullest and most careful attention. When Tanner gets back, perhaps you wouldn’t mind calling in and having a chat over the matter with him?”</p>
			<p>When Jimmy returned to Lois and told her of the Portuguese expedition she was as utterly amazed as he was. But there was no way of satisfying their curiosity, and they had unwillingly to content themselves to wait till Tanner’s return.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
