<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: A Stern Chase</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Stern Chase</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>When the <time datetime="1920-07-26T10:30">10:30 <abbr>a.m.</abbr></time> Riviera express pulled out of Paddington next morning, Inspector Tanner was occupying a corner seat in one of its first-class compartments. In his pocket was a warrant for the arrest of William Douglas, in case his investigations should indicate that such a step was desirable. He had determined that if his victim could not account satisfactorily for his actions on the night of the murder, or if his boots fitted the marks on the Cranshaw River bank, no other course would be possible.</p>
			<p>Once again the Inspector was favoured with magnificent weather for his country ramble. Indeed, like the previous days, it was too hot, and as the train slipped swiftly through the sunbaked country, he moved into the corridor so as to make the most of the draught from the open windows. Each time that he had made this journey in the past he had enjoyed it, especially the portion between Exeter and Newton Abbott⁠—down the estuary of the Exe, past Dawlish and Teignmouth with their queer spiky, red rocks, and precipitous little cliffs running out into the blue sea, then farther on inland again through the hilly, wooded country of South Devon, where one caught unexpected glimpses of tiny, nestling villages, and of narrow lanes, winding mysteriously, between mossy, flower-spangled banks under the cool shade of overhanging trees.</p>
			<p>He reached Plymouth⁠—the first stop since leaving Paddington⁠—shortly before <time datetime="1920-07-26T15:00">three</time>. Changing at North Road, he boarded a branch line train after a short wait. A run of a few minutes brought him to Yelverton. Here he alighted, and when the Launceston and Princetown trains had rumbled off, he accosted the stationmaster.</p>
			<p>“I am looking for a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> William Douglas of Myrtle Cottage,” he said. “Can you tell me where that is?”</p>
			<p>The stationmaster could. Myrtle Cottage, it appeared, was half a mile away on the road to Dousland, and Tanner, having received directions as to his route, set off to walk.</p>
			<p>The house was small and surrounded by trees, through which the gables showed picturesquely. It was set back some little distance from the road, a path leading through a not very well kept flower garden to the door. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Douglas was evidently an apiarist, for a row of wooden hives lined each side of the path, and the hum of the insects was audible even from the road. Along the side of the garden, and passing close to the gable of the house ran a lane, from which a large gate led to a yard in the rear. This gate, Tanner noticed, was standing open.</p>
			<p>He walked up the path and knocked at the green-painted door. For some time there was no response, but after a second and more peremptory summons he heard footsteps approaching. The door was opened by a small man with grey hair and a beard trimmed short.</p>
			<p>“Got him first shot,” thought Tanner, as he politely asked for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> William Douglas.</p>
			<p>The man threw the door open.</p>
			<p>“Walk in, sir,” he said. “My brother is upstairs. I’ll call him.”</p>
			<p>“Your brother?” asked Tanner sharply, as he followed his guide to a rather poorly furnished sitting room.</p>
			<p>“Yes. I’m John. I’ve lived here for some years, but William is just back from America.”</p>
			<p>Tanner nodded. He recollected the hotel porter had stated that William Douglas had spoken with an American accent, whereas this man clearly hailed from the north of England. Besides, the beard was different. The porter had mentioned a goatee, but the speaker’s was cut to a tiny point.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, sir,” said the man civilly. “I’ll send my brother down.”</p>
			<p>He indicated a chair opposite the door, and Tanner took it. From where he sat he could see the foot of the staircase, and he watched John walk to it and leisurely ascend. Presently he heard him call “William!”</p>
			<p>A nasal voice answered, but the Inspector could not hear the words. John’s voice, now more distant, mumbled something in reply, and there was a word, apparently of assent, from the other.</p>
			<p>Tanner glanced round the room. Beside the easy chair in which he sat⁠—leather lined, and very old and worn⁠—there was not much that made for comfort. A deck chair stood with its back to one of the rather small windows. In front of the other window was a table on which lay a number of books, mostly dealing with bee keeping. The floor was covered by a carpet, the worn, threadbare condition of which was brought out pitilessly by the rays of the sun which struck obliquely across it. Tanner got up and began to poke about, but without taking his eye off the bottom of the stairs. William, it was evident, was in no hurry to come down.</p>
			<p>Suddenly there came faintly the purr of a motor engine, and in a few seconds the sounds indicated that a car had started at no great distance away. It grew louder, and Tanner moved to the window. The sitting-room was in the gable beside the lane, and as the Inspector looked out he saw a small two-seater with one occupant pass out towards the road. But this occupant was a small man, and though his collar was turned up and his cap pulled down over his eyes, Tanner could see he had a grey beard.</p>
			<p>He stood for a moment wondering how John had got downstairs without having been seen. Then, as the house seemed strangely quiet, an idea flashed into his mind, and he ran to the stairs and called, “Anyone there?” There was no answer, and with a sudden feeling of foreboding, he raced up. Three rooms opened off a short landing, and the doors being open, he glanced into each in turn. They were all empty!</p>
			<p>A casement window on the landing was open, and as Tanner looked out, he saw what had been done. About three feet below the sill was the roof of a low shed. Nothing could be easier than to step out of the window on to the roof, and drop to the ground. The open door of the outhouse to which led many wheel tracks showed where the motor had been kept.</p>
			<p>Tanner swore savagely. Never before had he been so completely and so easily duped. It was now evident to him that William Douglas had recognised him approaching the house, and had invented a brother to enable him to hold the Inspector’s attention while he bolted. And he had played his cards skilfully! Ruefully the Inspector had to admire the trick, though he surmised it had been worked out beforehand in view of just such an emergency.</p>
			<p>“He’ll not get far,” the angry man growled, as he prepared to follow. But, thinking a moment or two would now make little difference, he turned his steps instead to the kitchen. There on a shelf, as he had expected, were three or four pairs of boots. Drawing from his pocket a tracing of the marks on the Cranshaw River bank, he eagerly compared it with the soles. Those of the first pair he took up corresponded! Here was proof, if proof were required. William Douglas had been at the Luce Manor boathouse on <time datetime="1920-07-07">the night of the murder</time>!</p>
			<p>Seizing a small handbag he had noticed in the sitting room, the Inspector packed the boots, then, after closing the windows, and locking the yard gates and the house doors, he hurried back along the road towards Yelverton. Inquiring for the local telephone call office, he rang up the Plymouth police authorities, describing, so far as he was able, the man and the car, and asking them to have a ring formed round the locality. Hastening on to the Yelverton police station, he told the sergeant what had occurred, and handing him the keys of the cottage, instructed him to take charge, and to make a thorough search of the premises.</p>
			<p>He learned that a train left for Plymouth in a few minutes, and travelling by it, he soon reached the police headquarters of that city. Here he was met by a superintendent, and the two men discussed the affair in detail.</p>
			<p>“I have done, I think, everything possible,” the Superintendent concluded. “All the stations at a radius of about twenty miles or more have been advised, and the roads will be watched from Looe and Liskeard round by Launceston, Okehampton, and Moreton Hamstead, to Newton Abbott. All trains and steamers, as far as possible, will be examined before departure, and the railway people at the smaller stations will be advised. I don’t think he’ll make for Cornwall, you know. It’s too much of a dead end. He will either go east in his car, or come to Plymouth and try the trains, or even more likely, the steamers.”</p>
			<p>“That is my own view,” Tanner returned. “I suppose there’s nothing to be done now but wait for information?”</p>
			<p>“I think we’ll hear something before long. If you haven’t had a meal, I should get it while you have the chance. The Dartmoor Arms, a few doors away, is quite good, and I’ll send for you if there is news.”</p>
			<p>As this seemed sound advice, Tanner followed it. But he had not finished his hastily served dinner when he was sent for. News had come in.</p>
			<p>“I have a wire from the Tavistock men,” the Superintendent explained. “A car answering your description has just been found abandoned in a lane about quarter of a mile on the Yelverton side of Tavistock. Evidently your man wouldn’t risk taking it through the town.”</p>
			<p>“Then he must be there himself.”</p>
			<p>“Unless he got away by rail. What time did you say he left Yelverton?”</p>
			<p>“About <time datetime="1920-07-26T16:15">quarter-past four</time>, or slightly later.”</p>
			<p>“From Yelverton to Tavistock is not more than about five miles. He would do it easily in fifteen minutes. Say he would reach Tavistock between <time datetime="1920-07-26T16:30">half past four</time> and <time datetime="1920-07-26T16:45">quarter to five</time>.” The Superintendent picked up a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Bradshaw</i>. “Here we are. By the Great Western there’s a <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:27">5:27</time> for Plymouth and a <time datetime="1920-07-26T18:02">6:02</time> for Launceston. Now for the South-Western. There’s a <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:22">5:22</time>, and a <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:50">7:50</time> for Exeter. He’s gone either by that <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:27">5:27</time> to Plymouth or the <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:22">5:22</time> to Exeter, and I should say the latter.”</p>
			<p>“It seems likely. Would your men have reached the stations before those trains left?”</p>
			<p>The Superintendent shook his head.</p>
			<p>“It’s just possible,” he answered, “but I hardly think so. Your phone was received at”⁠—he referred to a paper⁠—“<time datetime="1920-07-26T16:42">4:42</time>. Orders were issued immediately, but considering telegraphic delays, they were probably not received at Tavistock till <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:00">five</time> or slightly after. The men would then have to be collected and instructed. They might have seen those trains out, but it’s unlikely.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ll go on to Tavistock now anyway,” Tanner decided. “I presume you will have those trains searched?”</p>
			<p>“Of course. I issued a new set of orders immediately. Both trains will be carefully examined, and the country all about Tavistock will be scoured. We are well accustomed to that,” the Superintendent added with a grim smile.</p>
			<p>“The Princetown convicts? I suppose you are,” answered Tanner, as with a brief word of farewell he withdrew.</p>
			<p>There being no train by either line for some little time, Tanner took a car. As they climbed the long, slow incline to Yelverton, out of the relaxing, enervating Plymouth air, he felt himself growing fresher and more energetic. He was grimly determined not to rest till he had laid his hands on the man who had duped him. From merely professional, the matter had become personal. Tanner’s pride was involved. No one, he swore, should play him such a trick and get off with it.</p>
			<p>They slipped quietly through the fifteen or sixteen miles of charmingly wooded country, dropping into Tavistock as the shadows began to lengthen across the road. The sergeant had been advised of Tanner’s arrival, and was expecting him. Together they ran back and examined the abandoned car. Though they found nothing directly helpful, Tanner felt sure it was the one he had seen from the sitting room at Myrtle Cottage.</p>
			<p>He turned to his companion.</p>
			<p>“Did you hear about this in time to examine the Plymouth and Exeter trains at <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:27">5:27</time> and <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:22">5:22</time>?” he asked.</p>
			<p>The other shook his head.</p>
			<p>“No, sir, I’m sorry to say we did not. But I have since made inquiries. No one with a grey beard was seen at either station. At the Great Western Station four persons booked, all third single to Plymouth, but the clerk remembers one of these was a young sailor and the others women. At the South-Western Station two tickets were issued to Exeter, one a first to Major Reading, who lives here, the other a third single to a little, elderly, clean-shaven man. Our men were there within ten minutes of the train’s departure, so that’s how the clerks remembered⁠—between that and there being so few bookings.”</p>
			<p>“A small, elderly, clean-shaven man, sergeant? Let us go round the Tavistock barbers.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant looked up sharply.</p>
			<p>“By Jove! sir, a likely enough ruse,” he cried. “It won’t take long to find out⁠—there are only three.”</p>
			<p>They ran back to the little town, and at the first barber’s learned that a small, elderly man with a short grey beard and moustache had called at a few minutes before <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:00">five</time>, and had had his beard and moustache shaved off.</p>
			<p>“Now to the telegraph office. We’ll have him before long.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector sent messages to Plymouth, to Exeter, and to some of the principal stations beyond, explaining that the bearded man of the previous wires had had himself shaved. Then he looked at his watch.</p>
			<p>“<time datetime="1920-07-26T19:45">Quarter to eight</time>. Can I catch the <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:50">7:50</time>? Phone to hold it while I run across.”</p>
			<p>He jumped into the car and drove to the South-Western Station. There he caught the train for Exeter with a minute to spare.</p>
			<p>He leaned back in the corner of a first-class compartment, and slowly drew out and lit a cigar, while he turned over in his mind the next step to be taken. He thought that at all events he should go on to Exeter. The <time datetime="1920-07-26T17:22">5:22</time> from Tavistock, by which Douglas had travelled, reached that city before his wire about the shaving had been sent out. Therefore it was hardly likely that the man would have been detained en route. Tanner, of course, recognised that a freshly shaven chin was unmistakable, but he did not think a village constable would have the sharpness to deduce what Douglas might have done, and act accordingly. But from Exeter in what direction would the quarry head?</p>
			<p>There seemed two possibilities. Probably he would try either to reach London, or to get abroad. London, as Tanner knew, was perhaps the safest place in the world for a criminal to lie hidden. But many ill-doers had an overwhelming desire to put as great a distance as possible between themselves and the scene of their misdeeds. If Douglas were of this class he would try to get out of the country, and if, as the hotel porter had stated, he spoke like an American, would he not be likely to try to reach the country in which he might most easily pass for a native? There was, of course, no means of knowing, but at least it was clear that the approaches to London as well as the ports should be closely watched.</p>
			<p>In any case, whatever the fugitive’s goal, he would be almost certain to pass through Exeter. It was true he could double back to Plymouth, but the probabilities were he would keep away from the district in which he was known. As Tanner’s train ran into <abbr>St.</abbr> David’s Station, Exeter, he felt sure his victim was not far before him.</p>
			<p>A tall efficient looking sergeant of police was waiting on the platform. This man, sharply scrutinising the alighting travellers, promptly fixed on Tanner.</p>
			<p>“Inspector Tanner, sir?” he questioned, and as the other nodded, continued, “they phoned us from Plymouth you were coming through on this train. We have inquiries in hand both here and at Queen Street, the other station. So far we have heard nothing of your man.”</p>
			<p>“What exactly are you doing?”</p>
			<p>“We have a man at each station working the staffs⁠—booking-clerks, ticket collectors, porters, refreshment rooms⁠—the usual thing. Another man is going round the hotels, another the restaurants open at that hour, and another the garages, in case he might have gone on by car. Is there any other line you would wish taken up?”</p>
			<p>“Why no, sergeant. I think you have covered all the ground. Have you advised your men that the fellow got shaved?”</p>
			<p>“Some of them, sir; some of them we couldn’t get hold of. We advise them as we can get in touch with them.”</p>
			<p>Tanner nodded again.</p>
			<p>“Well, we had better go to headquarters and wait for news.”</p>
			<p>For a considerable time Tanner remained, chafing and impatient, until, just as <time datetime="1920-07-26T23:00">eleven</time> was booming from the town clocks, a constable appeared accompanied by a tall, fair-haired young man in a leather coat and breeches, and a peaked cap. The latter explained that he was a taxi owner, driving his own vehicle, and he believed he knew something that might be of value.</p>
			<p>It appeared that he had been at <abbr>St.</abbr> David’s Station when Douglas’s train had come in. He was engaged by a small, elderly, clean-shaven man with grey hair, dressed in a tweed overcoat and a cloth cap. The man seemed nervous and excited, and told him to drive to any ready-made clothes store which would be open at that hour. He took him to a shop in the poorer part of the town. The man went in, returning in a few minutes dressed in a soft, grey felt hat and a khaki coloured waterproof, and carrying a bundle. He reentered the taxi and told the driver “Queen Street Station as quick as you can.” He drove there, and the man paid him and hurried into the station, and that was all he knew.</p>
			<p>“What time did you reach Queen Street?” asked Tanner.</p>
			<p>“Going on to <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:30">half-past seven</time>.”</p>
			<p>“We’d better go to Queen Street and find out what trains leave about that hour.”</p>
			<p>Their visitor’s car was waiting outside, and engaging it, they drove rapidly off.</p>
			<p>For those who do not know Exeter, it may be explained that the Great Western and London and South-Western Railways, both running from London to Plymouth, form a gigantic figure 8, the centre where the lines cross being <abbr>St.</abbr> David’s Station, Exeter. In the same town, but a mile nearer London on the South-Western, is Queen Street Station. While therefore <abbr>St.</abbr> David’s is joint between the two Companies, Queen Street is South-Western only, and these facts seemed to indicate to Tanner the probability that Douglas was going for a South-Western train bound Londonwards.</p>
			<p>A glance at the time table at Queen Street supported this view. A train left for London at <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:32">7:32</time>.</p>
			<p>“Your constable saw the booking-clerk, I suppose?” Tanner asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. But of course he gave the wrong description. He did not know the man had changed his cap and coat.”</p>
			<p>“That’s true,” Tanner assented. “We had better see him again.”</p>
			<p>The booking office was closed and the clerk had gone home. With considerable difficulty they obtained his address from a watchman. Then stepping into their waiting taxi, they were driven to it.</p>
			<p>The house was in darkness, but their third thunderous knock produced a sleepy and indignant householder. Tanner, who was a past-master in the art, soothed his ruffled feelings, and he brought them in and civilly asked their business.</p>
			<p>“You have been troubled about this before, I’m afraid,” the Inspector began. “I shall explain the affair in a word and you’ll see its importance. A murder has been committed, and we have traced the suspected man to Queen Street Station. He drove up in a great hurry just before <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:30">half-past seven</time> this evening, and we imagine he must have travelled by the <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:32">7:32</time>. Now you will see why we want your help. If you can recall the man and recollect where he booked to, it would be of material assistance to us.”</p>
			<p>“A clean-shaven man in a brownish cap and coat?” the clerk replied. “But I have already answered that. I saw no one so dressed.”</p>
			<p>“We have just discovered that he had bought a waterproof and a grey felt hat. Can you recall him now?”</p>
			<p>The clerk made a sudden gesture.</p>
			<p>“Why yes, I can,” he cried excitedly, “I remarked him because he was in such a fuss, and I told him he was time enough. I should have thought of it when the constable asked me, but the description put me off.”</p>
			<p>“Quite naturally,” Tanner assured him smoothly, “but now if you can tell us where he booked to, you’ll do us a very great service.”</p>
			<p>“I can do so. His excitement drew my attention to him. He took a third single to Southampton.”</p>
			<p>“Southampton! Just as I expected,” exclaimed Tanner. “Making for the ships!”</p>
			<p>The other nodded and Tanner went on:</p>
			<p>“Where would he get to from there? Would he catch the night boat for Havre?”</p>
			<p>“No,” answered the clerk as he fetched a time table and rapidly turned over the leaves. “The <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:32">7:32</time> gets to Salisbury at <time datetime="1920-07-26T22:52">10:52</time>, and there’s a train on to Southampton Town at <time datetime="1920-07-26T23:30">11:00</time>. It doesn’t go to the Harbour. But the connection at Eastleigh is bad, and you don’t get to Southampton till <time datetime="1920-07-27T00:30">12:30</time>. The Havre boat leaves at <time datetime="1920-07-26T23:30">11:30</time>.”</p>
			<p>“And what time do you get to Eastleigh?”</p>
			<p>“<time datetime="1920-07-26T23:37">11:37</time>.”</p>
			<p>“And from there to Southampton is how far?”</p>
			<p>“About seven miles to the docks.”</p>
			<p>“So that if he had taken a motor at Eastleigh he could have been there by midnight?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I should say about that.”</p>
			<p>Tanner looked at his watch. It was <time datetime="1920-07-26T23:55">five minutes to twelve</time>. In from five to thirty-five minutes Douglas would probably reach Southampton. Would there be time to intercept him there?</p>
			<p>Hastily thanking the clerk, the two men jumped once more into their taxi and drove to the police station. There the Inspector hurried to the telephone to call up the Southampton police. But there was a delay in getting through. For thirty minutes he fumed and fretted. Then at <time datetime="1920-07-27T00:30">half-past twelve</time> he got his connection.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid the train will be in,” replied the distant voice, “but if it’s late we’ll get your man if he’s on it. If we miss him there, we’ll go on to the Docks. There’s a Union Castle liner due out at <time datetime="1920-07-27T05:00">five o’clock</time>. He may be going for that. What about the warrant?”</p>
			<p>“Hold on a minute,” said Tanner, then turning to the sergeant, he spoke rapidly:</p>
			<p>“A liner leaves Southampton at <time datetime="1920-07-27T05:00">five</time> for South Africa. Can I get there with a good car? There are no trains, of course?”</p>
			<p>“None, sir. It’s about a hundred miles and you should do thirty miles an hour⁠—say three and a half hours. If you left here at <time datetime="1920-07-27T01:00">1:00</time>, you should be there by <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:30">4:30</time>.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll do that.” Then turning back to the telephone: “I’m leaving here now by road for Southampton. You may expect me at the Union Castle berth about <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:30">4:30</time>. I’ll have the warrant.”</p>
			<p>The taxi-driver they had been employing being unfamiliar with the surrounding country, they drove to the nearest garage and after some difficulty succeeded in knocking up a sleepy manager and hiring a powerful car and a man who knew the road, at least as far as Salisbury. But there were delays in getting away, and though the manager did his best, it was nearly <time datetime="1920-07-27T01:30">half-past one</time> when the big vehicle swung out of Exeter, eastward bound.</p>
			<p>The night was fine but dark. As they purred swiftly along the smooth road, Tanner lay back on the comfortable cushions and let the cool air blow in on his heated forehead, while he took stock of the position.</p>
			<p>He was perfectly aware that he might be on a wild-goose chase. The taking of the ticket to Southampton might have been a blind, and Douglas might not have done the obvious thing in making a bolt to the most convenient port. After the ruse the man had employed at Myrtle Cottage, Tanner felt he would not do the obvious thing unless he was impelled to it by some strong consideration. But such a consideration existed. There was the element of time. The man would realise that on such a journey he must inevitably be traced, but he would hardly imagine he could be traced in time. Before his pursuers could reach Southampton he would count on having been able to adopt a new personality, and put hundreds of miles of sea between himself and them. The more Tanner thought over this possibility, the more likely it seemed. If he were in Douglas’s position it was the view he himself would have taken.</p>
			<p>They were running well. Tanner watched the whirling hedges, lit up by the strong headlights, and blurred by the speed into quivering smudges, and judged they must be doing well on to forty miles an hour. It was, of course, breaking the law; moreover, it was by no means safe, but Tanner did not let such considerations weigh against the chance of checkmating the man who had duped him. He had informed the chauffeur he would be responsible if there was trouble.</p>
			<p>He fell to reckoning distances. He was not very well up in the geography of the district, but he knew there were two roads, north through Yeovil and Salisbury, and south through Dorchester and Poole. He imagined neither of these was quite direct, but he did not know if there was a good road lying between them.</p>
			<p>In about half an hour they slackened for a town, after which the road rose for some miles. Then in half an hour more it fell again and they ran through another town, whose name appeared on several buildings⁠—Chard. “The Salisbury Road,” thought Tanner. Forty minutes later they left Yeovil behind and at <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:10">4:10</time>, nearly three hours after leaving Exeter, they turned out of Salisbury on the Southampton road.</p>
			<p>“Not bad going,” thought Tanner. “If we can keep it up we should be at the boat at <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:40">twenty to five</time>.”</p>
			<p>But alas! the driver’s knowledge of the road which had served them so well up to Salisbury, now failed them. They had to reduce speed at crossroads and run more cautiously. Fortunately, it was now fairly light, or their progress would have been still slower.</p>
			<p>Tanner, was getting nervous. It was going to be a near thing. He held his watch in his hand and counted the mileposts as one after another they dropped behind. Now it was <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:30">half-past four</time>, and still they had nine miles to go.</p>
			<p>At last they came to the town. But here matters instead of mending, grew much worse. Neither Tanner nor the driver knew the streets, and precious minutes were wasted trying to puzzle out the way from the rather inferior map the latter had brought.</p>
			<p><time datetime="1920-07-27T04:45">Quarter to five</time>. Tanner was in desperation. And then to his relief his eye fell on a policeman. It was the work of a moment to call him over, explain the situation, and get him up beside the driver. Then their troubles were over. The streets were empty and they made fine speed.</p>
			<p>It wanted <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:50">ten minutes to five</time> as the car pulled up at the docks, and Tanner leaped out and raced to the berth of the great liner. A man whom he instantly recognised as a policeman in plain clothes stood near the bottom of each gangway, while a third was sauntering along the edge of the wharf beside the boat. Tanner spoke hurriedly to the latter.</p>
			<p>“He’s not on board, sir,” the man answered. “We were here before he could have got down from the Town Station, and besides we made inquiries.”</p>
			<p>“The other side of the ship?” queried the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“We have a man rowing up and down.”</p>
			<p>Tanner grunted.</p>
			<p>“Who’s in charge?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Sergeant Holmes. He went to phone the station. He’ll be back directly.”</p>
			<p>Tanner was woefully disappointed. He felt that if Douglas was not already aboard he would never risk it now. Had the man, he wondered, been sharper than he had counted on, and once again given him the slip? Fortunately, he had taken the obvious precaution of wiring all the stations at which the <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:32">7:32</time> stopped, so that, even if Douglas had alighted elsewhere, he would almost certainly be spotted. But had Douglas travelled by the <time datetime="1920-07-26T19:32">7:32</time> at all? Was his haste with the taxi and his purchase of the ticket another trick, and was he lying low in Exeter, intending still further to alter his appearance and make a bolt elsewhere? Or was he walking all night with the object of joining a train at some quite different station in the morning? Tanner could not guess.</p>
			<p>Three minutes only remained and Tanner grew more and more anxious. It was now or never. Then, as the gangways were being hoisted, a sergeant of police appeared and went up to one of the plain clothes men. Tanner hurried forward.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tanner, sir?” said the sergeant. “I’m very sorry, sir, but you’re late.”</p>
			<p>“Late?” Tanner cried sharply. “What do you mean, sergeant? There’s plenty of time to go on board still.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant shook his head.</p>
			<p>“He’s not there, sir. He’s gone. I’ve just learnt that he left by the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Vaal River</i>. She sailed at <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:00">four o’clock</time>.”</p>
			<p>“Damnation!” cried Tanner angrily. “What were you thinking about, sergeant? How in hell did you let him slip through your fingers?”</p>
			<p>“The man I sent down, sir, missed him. I can’t imagine how he did it, but you’ll hear what he has to say yourself. After I had all⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’ll see him,” said Tanner grimly. “How did you find it out?”</p>
			<p>“I posted the men, sir, first, then I went round them myself. I got to the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Vaal River</i>’s berth as she was sheering out. I made inquiries at the office. There is no doubt the man booked.”</p>
			<p>“Where to?”</p>
			<p>“Tangier, sir.”</p>
			<p>“H’m⁠—Morocco, and there’s no extradition from there. Where else does the boat call?”</p>
			<p>“Lisbon, Marseilles, Naples, Suez, Delagoa Bay and Durban.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll get him at Lisbon. Show me the office.”</p>
			<p>They hurried down to the East Africa Line Quay office. There Tanner interviewed the booking clerk and satisfied himself that Douglas really had sailed. He had booked under the name of Walter Donnell.</p>
			<p>“Lisbon is the first call?” asked the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“Yes. She’s due there about <time datetime="1920-07-29T06:00">six on Thursday morning</time>.”</p>
			<p>“And this is <time datetime="1920-07-27">Tuesday</time>. That’s about a fifty hour run?”</p>
			<p>“About that.”</p>
			<p>“I must get there before her. How am I to do it?”</p>
			<p>The clerk stared.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid you can’t,” he answered slowly. “She’s not a specially fast boat, but there’s no other leaving soon enough to pass her.”</p>
			<p>“Overland?”</p>
			<p>“No. There’s not time. If you had caught the Havre boat last night you could have done it. You can’t now.”</p>
			<p>“Let me see the time table.”</p>
			<p>The clerk produced a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Continental Bradshaw</i>.</p>
			<p>“Here you are,” he said, turning to the “Through Routes” on page 6. “You see there are two trains a day from Paris to Lisbon. One, the ordinary, leaves Paris at <time datetime="22:22">10:22</time> at night. It gets to Lisbon at <time datetime="00:33">12:33</time> two nights later⁠—that is, about a fifty hours’ run. That’s out of the question, and you’ll see the other is too. It’s a special fast train, the Sud Express, and it leaves Paris at <time>12:17</time> midday, and reaches Lisbon at <time datetime="22:50">10:50</time> the following evening⁠—that is thirty-four hours and a half. Now if you could catch that train today you’d be all right. But you couldn’t. Even if you could catch the <time datetime="08:00">8:00 <abbr>a.m.</abbr></time> from Victoria, which you couldn’t. That would only bring you into Paris at <time datetime="05:29">5:29</time>⁠—five hours late.”</p>
			<p>“How long does your boat lie at Lisbon?”</p>
			<p>“About four hours. She’s due away about <time datetime="1920-07-29T10:00">ten on Thursday morning</time>.”</p>
			<p>Tanner felt he was up against it. So far as he could see it was impossible for him to reach Lisbon before <time datetime="1920-07-29T22:50">10:50 on the Thursday night</time>, and by that time the man he wanted would already have left some twelve hours. And if he missed him at Lisbon, he would miss him for good. He could never get him once he was ashore at Tangier. Nor was it any more possible for another officer from the Yard to go in his place.</p>
			<p>Of course, there were the Portuguese police. Tanner had never been in Portugal, and knew nothing whatever about its police, but he had the not uncommon insular distrust of foreign efficiency. As he put it to himself, he would rather rely on himself any day than trust to any of these foreign chaps. But there seemed no other way.</p>
			<p>Absently thanking the clerk, he walked with the sergeant back to his car and drove to the police station. As he dismounted an idea shot suddenly into his mind.</p>
			<p>“Get the car ready for another run,” he shouted and hurrying to the telephone, put through a call to Scotland Yard.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I’m Tanner,” he said, when the connection was made. “The Ponson Case. That man Douglas I’m after got away on the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Vaal River</i>. Sailed from Southampton at <time datetime="1920-07-27T04:00">four</time> this morning. First call Lisbon. I must be there to meet him. It can only be done if I leave Paris at <time datetime="1920-07-27T12:17">12:17</time> today. None of the ordinary services would get me over in time. Can you arrange with the Air people to give me a plane?”</p>
			<p>He was told to wait, and at <time datetime="1920-07-27T06:00">six o’clock</time> the reply came.</p>
			<p>“The Deputy Chief has arranged for a fast plane to leave the drome near Petersfield as soon as possible. Get there at once and report to Major Forbes. Call at Hendon and we shall have French and Portuguese money for you, as well as the extradition warrant.”</p>
			<p>Tanner was not long in reaching Petersfield, but there was a delay at the aerodrome, and he chafed impatiently as the precious minutes slipped away. It was not indeed till a little after <time datetime="1920-07-27T07:00">seven</time> that the actual start was made. The morning was clear at first, and they made good speed to Hendon, alighting and picking up the money and papers. But as they reached the coast they ran into a haze, which soon developed into a thick fog. The pilot did his best, going straight on by dead reckoning, but when in another hour they got through it, they found they had gone a good deal out of their course in a northerly direction. Tanner swore bitterly, for he found his margin of time was growing less and less. Finally they picked up the main line of the Northern Railway, and following it fairly closely, at last saw creeping up over the horizon the buildings of the capital.</p>
			<p>“Down in ten minutes,” the pilot roared, and Tanner nodded as he looked his watch.</p>
			<p>It was <time datetime="1920-07-27T11:49">eleven minutes to twelve</time>, and the Inspector recognised he would have to run for it. Soon they were above Argenteuil and crossing the great loops of the Seine, with <abbr>St.</abbr> Cloud on the right and the vast city stretching away to the left. Now they were planing rapidly down, till with a gentle shock they alighted at the edge of the flying ground at Issy. Tanner leaped out and ran to the entrance as fast as the stiffness of his legs would allow. As he did so <time datetime="1920-07-27T12:00">twelve</time> sounded from the clock towers. He had seventeen minutes, the Gare Quai d’Orsay was two miles away, and there were no taxis within sight.</p>
			<p>There was but one thing to do and Tanner did it. Some private cars were drawn up on the road just outside the flying ground. Tanner ran his eye hastily over them and selected one, a racing car from which a sporting looking man was just descending. The detective hailed him.</p>
			<p>“Sir,” he panted, “I have crossed by aeroplane from England to catch the <time datetime="1920-07-27T12:17">12:17</time> at the Gare Quai d’Orsay, and now I can’t get a taxi. If you would run me till we meet a taxi, I just couldn’t say how grateful I’d be.”</p>
			<p>The man looked puzzled.</p>
			<p>“I not speak Engleesh,” he said slowly, then adding interrogatively, “You weesh⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">aller, aller</i>⁠—go⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">à la</i> Gare Quai d’Orsay?”</p>
			<p>Tanner nodded emphatically, and taking out his watch, ran his finger from the minute hand, which was now standing at <time datetime="1920-07-27T12:05">five minutes past the hour</time>, to <time datetime="1920-07-27T12:17">seventeen minutes past</time>. The man threw up his left hand to signify comprehension.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Ah, oui</i>,” he answered. “<i xml:lang="fr">Bon. Montez vite, monsieur.</i> Chomp een.”</p>
			<p>Tanner had obeyed the gesture before the man finished speaking, and the powerful car, swinging round, shot rapidly eastwards along the <i xml:lang="fr">quais</i>.</p>
			<p>“Where you⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">allez</i>⁠—go?” jerked out the man as they tore along. Tanner understood.</p>
			<p>“Lisbon,” he called.</p>
			<p>“Ah, Lisbonne. <i xml:lang="fr">Oui</i>,” the man nodded.</p>
			<p>Suddenly they came to a great building⁠—Tanner did not know his Paris⁠—and the car stopped abruptly. The man jumped out followed by his passenger. As they ran into the concourse of the huge Quai d’Orsay Station, the hands of the clock pointed to <time datetime="1920-07-27T12:15">fifteen minutes past twelve</time>. Two minutes to get the ticket! Without his new friend Tanner would have been utterly lost. The taking of a ticket seemed a complicated and interminable affair. But at last it was accomplished, and Tanner raced for the bridge across the low level tracks. But just before he reached the inclined plane descending to the platform, the ticket examiner slammed the gate. There was a voluble outcry from the sporting man, but for answer the official shrugged his shoulders and pointed to the roofs of the carriages. The train was already moving.</p>
			<p>Once again Tanner swore bitterly, as he gazed at the disappearing vehicles. But his friend gave him no time for self-commiseration.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Vite! Vite!</i>” he cried, signing to the other to follow him, and rushing once more out of the station.</p>
			<p>They threw themselves into the car, which started off at a furious pace eastwards. Then Tanner recollected that the terminus of the Paris-Orleans line had formerly been the Gare d’Austerlitz farther up the river, the Gare Quai d’Orsay being a new station at the end of a recently made extension. All trains, he farther remembered having read, stopped at the Gare d’Austerlitz to enable the electric engine which worked through the extension tunnel to be replaced by a steam locomotive. Evidently his friend thought he could overtake the train at the Austerlitz Station.</p>
			<p>And he did⁠—just. After wringing the hand of the man who had taken so much trouble to help him, he dashed to the platform and climbed into a carriage as the train began to move.</p>
			<p>“Lord!” he said to himself as he wiped his forehead, “only for that old sport I’d have missed it.”</p>
			<p>Then began a long tedious journey. Though the train was rapid and luxurious, Tanner was pretty sick of it before he reached his destination. There was a restaurant car forward, and as they raced across the sunny country south of Paris, the Inspector did full justice to an excellent lunch.</p>
			<p>After a time he grew wearied by the monotony of the flat lands, but the scenery became more interesting as they crossed the hills between Poitiers and Angoulême. Bordeaux was passed about <time datetime="1920-07-27T19:00">seven o’clock</time>, and as darkness fell they were traversing the dreary, desolate, sandy wastes and pine forests of Les Landes.</p>
			<p>They reached Irun just before <time datetime="1920-07-28T00:00">midnight</time>, changing there into the broad-gauge carriages of Spain, and waiting for customs examination.</p>
			<p>The moon rose as they passed through the rocky country north of Burgos, and it was daylight when they reached the latter town. Then on again through Valladolid to Medina, where the Madrid portion of the train branched off; through Salamanca of legendary fame, but now, for Spain, a considerable railway centre, then into Portugal, where the train hurtled along at considerably over thirty miles an hour. Finally, with brakes grinding, they descended the steep incline tunnelled beneath one of the seven hills on which Lisbon is built, and pulled up, twenty minutes late, in the Rocio Station.</p>
			<p>When Tanner emerged into the brilliantly lighted streets and gazed down the splendid vista of the Avenida da Liberdade, he literally held his breath with amazement. The Portuguese he had always looked on as a lazy, good-for-nothing set, but this great new boulevard made him reconsider his opinion. He booked a room in the Avenida Palace Hotel, and then, crossing the Dom Pedro Square, walked down to the steamboat offices in the Rua da Alfandega.</p>
			<p>The office was open⁠—everyone seemed to be on the move all night⁠—and one of the clerks spoke English. The steamer, it appeared, was due about <time datetime="1920-07-28T06:30">half-past six</time>. Tanner took the clerk into his confidence, and the latter made arrangements for the Inspector to get aboard with the first boat from the shore.</p>
			<p>At <time datetime="1920-07-28T06:00">six o’clock</time> Tanner was down on the Praça do Commercio, admiring in the brilliant sunlight the splendid river which flowed before him, and the charming setting of the town on its range of hills. In the river lay several steamers, some quite large, and all tugging at their anchors with their bows upstream. Down seawards, but inside the comparatively narrow mouth of the Tagus, a grey, two-funnelled boat was coming slowly up⁠—the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Vaal River</i>⁠—with, as Tanner hoped, William Douglas on board.</p>
			<p>His friend the clerk arriving a moment later, the two men embarked on a motor launch. As the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Vaal River</i>’s anchor fell with a mighty splash, they sheered alongside and made fast.</p>
			<p>When the port authorities had gone aboard, Tanner was allowed to follow. He went straight to the captain, who was still on the bridge, and showing him his card, explained his business.</p>
			<p>“And so <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Donnell’s wanted for murder,” the captain commented. “Guess he’s aboard all right. I thought he had something on his mind. See the chief steward and you’ll find him. What are you going to do with him?”</p>
			<p>“Take him back to London.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. But how?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. What would you advise?”</p>
			<p>The captain pointed to a single-funnelled steamer of about 4,000 tons lying not two hundred yards on their port quarter.</p>
			<p>“That’s the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Chrysostom</i>, a Booth liner, due out in about an hour. If you take my advice you’ll get aboard and don’t favour the shore with your presence. I’ll run you over in the launch.”</p>
			<p>Tanner thanked the man warmly.</p>
			<p>“Guess that’s all right,” he answered dryly. “I’m as interested in getting him out of my ship as you are in taking him.”</p>
			<p>Finding the chief steward, Tanner explained the matter in hand, adding that he wished to make the arrest as quietly as possible. The man seemed mildly interested and promised his help.</p>
			<p>Douglas, alias Donnell, was, it appeared, still in his cabin, and the two went thither. He was in bed, and rose to open the door. When he saw Tanner his eyes started from his head with amazement, then his jaw dropped and his face went grey. Stepping quickly back, he collapsed on to the cabin sofa and sat staring helplessly.</p>
			<p>“William Douglas or Walter Donnell,” Tanner said solemnly, “I arrest you on a charge of being concerned in the death of the late Sir William Ponson, of Luce Manor, Halford. I have to warn you that anything you say will be used against you.”</p>
			<p>The man made a desperate effort to pull himself together.</p>
			<p>“My God!” he gasped. “How did you trace me?” Then, Tanner not replying, he went on with pitiable earnestness:</p>
			<p>“But you’ve made a mistake. I am innocent. I know the circumstances look bad, but I’m innocent, I swear it in God’s name.”</p>
			<p>“That will do,” said Tanner not unkindly. “You’ll have every chance to put yourself right if you can do it. But you’ll have to come back to London with me. And for your own sake, the less you say the better.”</p>
			<p>For a moment the idea of making a desperate resistance seemed to cross the prisoner’s mind. Then, apparently realising his hopeless position, he said quietly, “I’ll go with you. Let me pack my things.”</p>
			<p>Tanner nodded, keeping a keen eye on the other’s movements for fear he would attempt suicide. But such an idea did not seem to occur to him. He dressed and packed expeditiously enough, and then said he was ready to go.</p>
			<p>The launch was waiting, and in a few minutes they stood on the deck of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Chrysostom</i>, homeward bound. Presently the anchor was hoisted and the vessel, swinging round, commenced her 1,200 mile trip to Liverpool.</p>
			<p>Having explained his business to the captain and seen Douglas securely locked in a cabin, Tanner stood leaning on the rail of the upper deck, watching the pleasantly situated town slip slowly astern. He could see the Cathedral of Belem standing, damaged, just as it was left by the earthquake of <time>1755</time>. Then out of the mouth of the river and past the picturesque pleasure resort of Mont Estoril, with, just beyond it, the sleepy, old-world village of Cascaes till, rolling easily in the Atlantic swell, they turned northwards. The Burlings Islands, which they passed later in the day, were the last land they saw until, on the <time datetime="1920-08-01">third morning</time>, they awoke to find themselves lying in the Mersey. By <time datetime="1920-08-01T12:00">midday</time> Tanner and his prisoner were in London.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
